Governor Abubakar Sani-Bello of Niger State continued his investment drive in the United Kingdom (UK) where he met with the Osprey Investment Group to advocate infrastructure development. The meeting was a continuation of an earlier meeting between the Niger State government and the Osprey Group in Abuja. At the organisation’s headquarters in London, Sani-Bello said his administration was committed to filling infrastructure gap in the state through medium and long term strategies. He noted that in every discussion on partnership between Niger State government and investors, the focus has been on how to do things differently. READ ALSO NEITI: No state can fund its budget with IGR, FAAC allocation “We want to do things differently in a way that is sustainable and the confidence of investors is maintained in the development of the state. We will focus on medium and long term strategies because we want a win-win situation in every partnership.” The governor revealed that the focus of his administration since inception on May 29, 2015 has been on completing projects started by previous administrations in the state. “The priority of the administration since May 29, 2015 has been on completing existing projects started by previous administration that have direct impacts on the lives of citizens.” While the discussions focused on rail, road, agriculture, emphasis was on roads in the state with particular attention to link roads in order to boost the economic and social sector of the state. In his remarks, Group Chairman, Osprey Investment, David Winn, expressed willingness to work with the Niger State government in filling its infrastructure deficit. Osprey Investments Group is a leading Britain-based infrastructural advisory group with over 40 years experience in Nigeria in project management, investment and consultancy. The group has been working with federal and state governments in Nigeria. Mr. Winn, Group Chairman, Osprey Investment, and Mr. Scott Hamilton, Chairman, Shadowgate Developments & Osprey Investments, UK, led the discussions on behalf of the group. Sani-Bello was accompanied to the meeting by his Chief of Staff, Mikail Bmitosahi; Commissioner for Works, Alhaji Ibrahim Balarabe and Commissioner for Finance, Alhaji Zakari Abubakar.