Perpetua Egesimba Women in the entertainment industry and indeed, across all fields have been advised to be shining examples through their lifestyles and work to please God and make the world a better place for everyone. Recently, the Cornerstone Anointed Church of Christ, Lagos celebrated the 11th anniversary of the Cornerstone Precious Women Conference. Several eminent women from the entertainment industry and the corporate world attended the event. At the event, veteran Nollywood actress, Joke Silva spoke on the theme: ‘Living To Please Christ.’ She urged women to use their lifestyles, professions and handworks to make the world a better place, adding that women have pertinent roles to play in the development of a sane society. She admitted that some women go through a lot of hardship and circumstances in order to realise their dreams, but she admonished them to hold onto their faith even in the face of hardships, tribulations and suffering. READ ALSO: Lagos Govt. moves to address gridlock “Things will be tough, people are facing all kinds of challenges from their businesses, health and so many others.  But in all the challenges, the Lord did say that in this world, there will be tribulations. He said ‘take heart, I come to calm the world.’ He will be with us in those challenges. “Women should continue to do what they know is right and trust the Lord that somehow, there will be light at the end of the tunnel. “As women, we should learn to worship to please God. We should also remember to commune with Christ as Mary, the sister of Martha did, by sitting on his feet and learning.” The veteran actress said it is possible for everyone to live a life that will please Christ, even in Nollywood because the power the women in Nollywood have as directors or actors can influence others positively or negatively. “Because we carry so much influence rightly or wrongly, women in Nollywood should as much as humanly possible let their light so shine. The seriousness and the discipline we put into our work speaks volume.” Commenting on the moral decadence and sex for role in the industry, she said as a mother, those with such demands won’t approach her. But as a mother, she has a duty to guide the young and female ones aright. “This is actually what we need to campaign about because it is more in the entertainment industry. “There is this sense of entitlement that unfortunately we have brought our sons up with over the years. They believe that for the female ones to do anything, she has to give her body. “What I usually tell the young ones is, ‘believe in your talent, because you may sleep with someone for a job and you may still not get the job. That’s very saddening and painful. And if you eventually get the job and you don’t have talent, people will say you slept with someone to get the job. “I advise young women to have a sense of self-worth. You see, when Christ was on earth, He spoke a lot about women. The great women we hear about in the Bible were from Christ and it’s a total adoration of who we are as women.” The convener and chief host of the event, Becky Unoarumhi, said the purpose of the conference was to build the women to be spiritual. READ ALSO: Rail: Jigawa Dept Gov advises transporters to sit up to remain in business According to her, a lot of women, because of the way they have lived their lives, tend to yield to their carnal nature than yield to their spiritual side. “So, God is asking us to gather as many women as possible to realise the essence of Him living in us and building us spiritually so that we don’t yield to our carnal nature all the time.” She said the conference was also used to talk to the women about their health, noting that women have a lot of health issues. “You see, I was healed of cancer in 1989. So, everything I do, I also centre it around health, because when you are well, you can live. When you are not well, you cannot live. Health is wealth. “This is the 11th year of this conference, and by God’s grace, we have wonderful testimonies of healings and of women that have turned their lives around. God is working systematically, even in my own life too. Women should live for Jesus Christ.” Others who were present at the event include Nollywood actress, Edith Ego Anyalogu, Dr. Ebele Uche, a consultant in Haematology and Dr. Isaac Amos of Thompson & Grace Investments Limited, among others. 