The Archbishop of Enugu Ecclesiastical Province, Most Rev. Dr. Emmanuel Chukwuma, has commended Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for signing the Child Rights Bill into law. The archbishop, who is also the chairman of Enugu State Adoption Committee, said the law has guaranteed the rights and welfare of children in the state. He said the governor’s disposition in ensuring all illegal adoption of children are completely stamped out in the state is commendable and worthy of emulation. The cleric spoke during the “Sensitisation workshop for stakeholders on adoption and adoption process in Enugu State,” held in Enugu, yesterday. He expressed delight that Governor Ugwuanyi  has provided the enabling environment for the committee to discharge its duties, stressing that “based on the magnanimity of His Excellency, this committee has ensured that baby factories, where babies are harvested for rituals do not exist in Enugu State.” READ ALSO: Fayose to Ekiti CJ: Stop behaving like coward The committee chairman added that the governor has assisted the state in the area of protection of the children through engagement of social welfare workers, training of the staff and supporting them in partnering some doctors and hospitals, to ensure the rights of children are protected. He said the enlightenment workshop was aimed at educating the people on the dangers of baby factories or illegal adoption, and urged the society to support the committee in upholding the salvation of children. Declaring the workshop open, Governor Ugwuanyi emphasised the importance of children in the society.  He said the Bible, in Psalm 127 verse three, describes children “as a heritage from God, and as His gifts to mankind,” and added that it “is the obligation on the society to treat children as precious divine presents, to be loved and cared for by all.” Represented by his deputy, Mrs. Cecilia Ezeilo, Ugwuanyi said the delicate and sensitive nature of children have necessitated most countries, including Nigeria to make laws and rules “to ensure that adoption and fostering are not abused or used in such a manner that would be detrimental to the wellbeing of affected children.” He disclosed that his administration has continued to take measures towards protecting the rights and welfare of the children in the state, such as prompt constitution of the committee on child fostering and adoption.