NAN The Indian High Commissioner to Nigeria, Mr Nagabhushana Reddy, says India and Nigeria will continue to work on cultural fusion so as to strengthen the bilateral relations between the two countries. The high commissioner said this on Friday in Abuja during the celebration of  the “India Day’’ at the ongoing International Arts and Crafts Expo, organised by the National Council for Arts and Crafts (NCAC). “I am sure we will definitely work on a fusion of Nigerian and Indian cultures, which we have done some month ago under the platform of Nemaste Nigeria. “I am glad that we are able to participate in this event because of the rich cultural ties existing between our countries,’’ he said. Reddy commended NCAC for bringing a large number of countries to participate at the current edition of International Arts and Crafts Expo. “I must congratulate the NCAC for bringing together for the first time, a large number of countries; thus giving the exhibition a truly international exposure. READ ALSO: Average price paid for bus fare increased in October — NBS “We have been able to bring a 12-member troupe from India to present a traditional dance from the State of Haryana in northern India. “Since we are celebrating the India Day at the expo, we think it is necessary to allow our artists, who came all the way from India, to perform in such striking attires,’’ he said. The envoy lauded the Director-General of NCAC, Chief Olusegun Runsewe, for encouraging the Indian artistes to perform in a fulsome manner. He expressed the hope that Nigerian artistes would be travelling to India to participate in similar arts and crafts exhibitions. “I will be leaving the country in December; I will miss the diversity and vibrancy of Nigerian cultures but I have always thought of Nigeria as a home away from home. “Due to some cultural similarities and approaches which India and Nigeria have, we connect so well and I always feel that the connection will go on for a very long time. “With the help of modern technological tools available I will forever remain connected to Nigeria,’’ he added. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the International Arts and Crafts Expo has “Networking Nigerian Arts and Crafts to the World’’ as its theme. 