NAN The House of Representatives has mandated it’s Committee on Police Affairs, to investigate the deployment and redeployment of eight Commissioners of Police (CP) in Bayelsa in the last three months. The resolution was sequel to a motion of urgent national importance, moved by Rep. Diri Douye (PDP-Bayelsa) and four other lawmakers from the state, at the plenary on Wednesday. Douye said the primary responsibility of the police is to protect the citizens, prevent and investigate crimes and respond to emergency calls among others. He said consistency is important in building trust and bridging the gap between police and the citizens for efficient operation of the force. The lawmaker said the CP, as the operational head of the police in the state is required to be on ground for a period of time to grasp a good understanding of the state. “It is therefore worrisome to experience the incessant and confused rotary of deployment and redeployment of Commissioners of Police in Bayelsa. READ ALSO: Gov. Tambuwal nominates Dan’iya as new deputy “In the last three months, eight commissioners have passed through the state. “This consistent erratic behavior should be checked. On an average, one CP is posted in and out of a state virtually every 10 years. “Thus making it possible for the governor who is the Chief Security Officer of the state, to develop a lasting synergy with the CP, which ensures peace and tranquility in the state,” he said. Douye said Gov. Seriake Dickson and the people of the state had expressed reservation over the constant changes of Commissioners of Police in the state. According to him, the apparent politicisation of the deployment of police commissioners in the state has created severe disequilibrium in the security, instilled fear and apprehension in the citizenry. He said the situation could lead to break down of law and order ahead of 2019 general elections.
In his ruling, Dogara mandated the committee to report back to the house in two weeks for further legislative actions.