NAN Dr Keziah Awosika, member, Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN), has said that active participation of Nigerian women in politics and governance is the key to sustainable development of the society. Awosika said this in her keynote address on the topic “Women collaborating for Global Impact: Building a Framework for Sustainable Development” during the Annual Congress of Business and Professional Women (BPW) in Nigeria on Friday in Uyo. She outlined the pillars of sustainable development to include economic, social and environmental, noting that women are at the centre of development and should be given the opportunity to explore their potential. According to her, when women are excluded from politics and governance, the society will not achieve maximum result. “What is happening in some parts of Nigeria mostly affect the women. Women should come together to push forward development in all areas endeavour.” She urged women to embrace family planning, especially rural women, so as to control the birth rate and contribute meaningfully to the development of the society. READ ALSO: 2018/2019 Admission: Maritime academy to admit 248 cadets She further noted that women were more vulnerable to environmental disasters and underscored the need for awareness among them to help curb this situation. In her remarks, the Akwa Ibom Governor’s wife, Mrs Martha Emmanuel, said that the stereotype of men dominating the society must be broken. Emmanuel, who was represented by the Commissioner for Women Affairs and social Welfare, Dr Glory Edet, urged women to acquire education and take active part in politics to liberate themselves. She thanked the executives of the Business and Professional Women for their choice of hosting the annual congress in the state. Earlier, the National President, Mrs Yinka Ajibola, said the annual congress was organised to encourage women to collaborate in the drive for political inclusion and to empower women in education, skill acquisition and the right to participate in politics. Ajibola said that women needed to participate in governance and politics so that their voices could be heard and commended the high level of women participation in politics in Akwa Ibom. She urged women from others part of the country to emulate the good example of Akwa Ibom women.