Zika Bobby National Institute of Marketing of Nigeria (NIMN) President, Tony Agenmonmen, has said the decision of the council to open a new corporate office for the institute in Government Reservation Area (GRA), Ikeja, was informed by the need to give marketing practice a new lease of life in Nigeria. Speaking at the commissioning of the new office, Agenmonmen said for marketing practice to flourish in the country, it has become imperative for practitioners to ply their trades in conducive environments that would positively project their image. Describing the new building as a “collective effort”, the NIMN boss expressed the resolve of the council in ensuring that the practice is given the utmost recognition it deserves in the country. READ ALSO Senators disagree over NPA’s withheld N177bn surplus “Though this building does not belong to us, it is far better than where we are coming from. Before now, nobody would be proud of being a marketer in the country, seeing the deplorable state of our former office. Though this is still work in progress, we believe this new place gives us a sense of pride as marketers,” he added. According to him, the institute is gradually overcoming its challenges as evident in the return of some of its members that left in the past, and the impressive attendance its activities had been able to attract in the past two years. “We had double equity challenge in the past but we are happy things are gradually looking up. For instance, in the past two years, our members that had left are coming back. Even our activities are attracting more attention now, especially the last one in Abuja, which was able to attract the presidency and other important dignitaries in the country,” he said. “While all these were positive for us, the fact that we had no befitting home (office) was a major challenge. We thought this is a convenient place. We then appealed to our members, and quite a number of them were generous,” Agenmonmen stated. According to him, the Council would soon create a Hall of Fame, to recognize those who contributed towards making the idea of the office a reality. Congratulating the council on the new office, Chief Executive Officer of S. O & U and chairman of the event, Udeme Ufot believes the location is key; since it would go a long way in boosting marketing practice in the country. 