Samuel Bello, Abuja One of the front-line contenders for the 2019 presidential seat and People’s Trust flagbearer, Mr. Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim, has assured workers that they (workers) would receive N50,000 minimum wage if they elect him into office. Olawepo-Hashim said this, on Monday, in Abuja, during an interactive session with residents of Federal Capital Territory (FCT). He faulted the campaign promises of ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the policy documents unveiled by People’s Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Atiku Abubakar. According to Olawepo-Hashim, “2019 election is about how to give a decent living wage to the workers of Nigeria. There are some people in the APC and PDP who have refused to pay N30,000 minimum wage. “When we are elected, by the grace of God, within one year, we will pay N50,000 minimum wage,” he said. READ ALSO: NDIC to run diploma in Financial Journalism Olawepo-Hashim lamented how Nigerians were losing jobs everyday under the present administration, reiterating that he would ensure 4 million jobs are created every year if elected. He noted that “The reason why they cannot pay ordinary N30,000 minimum wage to the workers is because they lack imagination. “They lack creativity. It’s because they are not people who know how to create money, they are parasite who have been living on government since they were in their twenties. “We are led by the leadership that has been creating jobs, that’s what I’ve been doing for 27years as a private entrepreneur. “So, when I am elected, you can trust me to create 4million jobs every year. APC’s policy is poverty, PDP policy is looting.” Earlier, Secretary, Board of Trustees representing the party Chairman, Olawale Okuniyi, assured the Presidential candidate that no Federal Capital Territory would be delivered for the party in 2019. He recalled how the National Chairman of the party, Olisa Agbakoba, Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) fought for democracy in 1999 which everybody is enjoying till today.