Okwe Obi, Abuja A Civil Society Organisation, also known as Association For Ethical Awareness In Nigeria, (AFEAN) has urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC ) to conduct a free, fair and credible election next year. National chairman of AFEAN, Franklin Effiong, who stated this at a media briefing in Abuja, recently also called on the electoral umpire to address the alleged double voters registration and the under-aged voters in different parts of the country. According to him, the enthronement of responsible and credible leadership is achievable if the processes leading to the emergence of those leaders are free, fair and devoid of manipulation or undue interference. READ ALSO INEC commences display of voters register in Enugu Effiong, who urged INEC to shun acts that could derail the smooth conduct of the elections and ensure that people’s vote counted, however enjoined all Nigerians to vote wisely and avoid parties that can not keep to their campaign promises. Speaking on the issue of Permanent Voter’s Card (PVC) collection, the National Secretary, AFEAN, Mr. Arigi Glen said the organisation was currently doing everything possible to educate registered voters especially those in the south west and south south zones on the need to have Permanent Voter’s Card (PVC), from INEC. Glen noted that the group has embarked on sensitisation of the electorate to ensure that eligible voters in the states participate in the electoral process, especially in the ongoing Continuous Voter Registration (CVR). “We are committed to ensuring that only credible, good and service oriented leaders emerged in the forthcoming 2019 general elections,” he said. He advised Nigerians to come out en mass in the 2019 generation election to exercise their franchise without any fear. While noting the role of women in nation building, Chairman, Board Of Trustee, AFEAN, Patricia Onoja, called on Nigerian women to take up their responsibilities and come out in the 2019 general election to exercise their right and fight for the future of their children. “The desire of our group is to ensure that no qualified adult voter is left out in the process of choosing our next political representatives in 2019, and we are committed to the ideal,“ she added. The Organisation, however, advised candidates contesting in the forthcoming general election to be careful with the kind of promises they make during their campaign, adding that it is better to keep to the few ones they can later fulfill than stating numerous unfulfilled promises. 