Paul Orude, Bauchi Immediate past Governor of Bauchi State, Mallam Isa Yuguda, has dumped the Green Party of Nigeria (GPN) and joined the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Yuguda announced his decision to join the APC at a press conference held at the NUJ Secretariat, in Bauchi, on Thursday, through his former Commissioner for Religious Affairs and Community Relations, Salisu Ahmed Barau. Yuguda explained that he joined the APC in other to continue to contribute to the development of the state. Barau stated that the former governor moved to the APC along with all his supporters across the country under the aegis of Yuguda Alheri, a political pressure group. READ ALSO: NNPC, BP sign PMS supply agreement He pointed out that as at Thursday when the official announcement of the detection was made over 500,000 people have registered their support for the development assuring that the target is to have over one million voters on the register. He, however, explained that Yuguda did not leave the GPN due to any indifference but out of his volition and after due consultation with all his supporters across the country adding that some of his supporters and former aides remain in other political parties. Barau explained further that, “Immediately he left office in 2015, Isa Yuguda announced his decision to leave the PDP, he set up different committees for consultations after which the decision was arrived for him to join the GPN and even went ahead to contest under the party. “When it was yet another time for him to leave, he consulted us and we decided to join the APC”. While reacting to the insinuations that Isa Yuguda was instrumental to the emergence of the present Governor, Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar in 2015, the spokesperson declared that, “There is no truth in that insinuations. How can Isa Yuguda who was in the PDP then and had a candidate whom he supported be instrumental to the emergence of another person as candidate in another party? Answering another question, Salisu Barau said that Isa Yuguda is not in the APC to cause any confusion but rather to act as an elder who will be instrumental to good governance, peacefully coexistence and delivery of dividends of democracy to the people of the state. READ ALSO: Munich, St. Petersburg bid to host 2021 UEFA Champions League final He then assured that the former Governor will be instrumental to the victory of the APC at all levels in the 2019 general elections as a loyal politician of repute calling on all the supporters of the former Governor to remain loyal and committed to the APC and avoid confrontation with anyone. With the formal announcement of the detection of Isa Yuguda who contested but lost the recent by-election for the Bauchi South senatorial seat, speculations about his political stance has now been laid to rest.