When it comes to our money, there is no shortage of ways we could spend it: food, rent, gifts, medicine, clothing, education, technology, gym membership, gas … you get the picture. We’re often asked, “How to budget my money?” – so we came up with a guideline to consider for when you set up a budget: the 50/20/30 Rule. When creating a budget, which you can do for free in the Money Center, it may be tempting to throw up your hands, say, “forget it,” and hope for the best. The 50/20/30 Rule helps change that. No matter whether you’re a mom with two kids or a recent college graduate working your first job, this rule can help you not only figure out how much you should be spending in each area every month, it will also tell you in what order you should be spending your money. READ ALSO Petra MFB optimistic of attaining CBN’s N200m recapitalisation order The 50/20/30 rule broken down The 50/20/30 Rule can be easy because instead of telling you how to break down your budget across 20 or more different categories (who could possibly keep track of that?), it splits everything into three main categories: Essential expenses No more than 50 per cent of your take-home pay should go toward essential expenses, which are the expenses you need in order to maintain the fundamentals of your life: shelter, food, heat, etc. Only four expenses should go in this category: housing, transportation, utilities and groceries. Financial priorities At least 20 per cent of your take-home pay should go to financial priorities, which are the goals that are essential to a strong financial foundation. These include your retirement contributions, savings contributions and debt payments, if you have debt. You should make these contributions and payments after you pay your essential expenses, but before you do any other spending. Lifestyle choices No more than 30 per cent of your take-home pay should go to lifestyle choices, which are personal, voluntary and often fun choices about how you spend your discretionary income. They often include cable, internet and phone plans, charitable giving, childcare, entertainment, gym fees, hobbies, pets, personal care, restaurants, bars, shopping and other miscellaneous expenses. While lifestyle choices are the last things you should buy in your budget, you should never feel guilty about that expensive purse or ordering a nice bottle of wine at dinner … as long as you’ve taken care of your essential expenses and financial priorities first. 