Governor Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun State has lambasted the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, saying that he lacks respect for truth and decency. The governor who was reacting to statements credited to Oshiomhole on the controversy trailing the primaries of the party in Ogun State said that the design of the APC chairman and his collaborators to hijack the government of Ogun State and hand it over to a gang of rapacious expansionists in the South-West would fail. Senator Amosun in a statement signed by his Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Adedayo Adeneye, said that if not for the unsavoury language used against him by the “garrulous party chairman, he will not descend into the gutter to exchange words with him because where he comes from, there are acceptable standards of conduct expected of people holding certain offices,” a virtue he wished Oshiomhole would exhibit. Amosun restated the contention of the APC leadership in Ogun that the only gubernatorial primary held in the state was that of October 2, which produced Hon. Adekunle Akinlade as winner. He said that the emergence of Akinlade was initially through a consensus arrangement as allowed by the party constitution, but was nevertheless subjected to a primary election when some gubernatorial aspirants disagreed with the outcome of the consensus arrangement. “This is, however, without prejudice to the sanctity of the consensus arrangement which Adams Oshiomhole hypocritically tries to demonise. Nigerians will recall that Oshiomhole himself was elected National Chairman of the APC by consensus arrangement, which witnessed all other contestants to the office being prevailed upon to step down for him (Oshiomhole). “The ground on which Oshiomhole disputes the gubernatorial primary in Ogun State is that the result was not announced by the State Electoral Committee from Abuja, therefore, the governor resorted to self-help. We wonder why Oshiomhole accepted the result of the primary election in Lagos State whose result was also not announced by the State Electoral Panel. Why will the same scenario be acceptable in Lagos State, but regarded as self-help in Ogun State? Is it because it was executed by the Capo Di Tutti in Lagos State?”