Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan Oyo State Governor, Abiola Ajimobi, said his administration, which came on board in 2011, has expended more than N200 billion on construction of roads across the state. He made the disclosure at the unveiling of Impact African Television (IATV), a subsidiary of Metropolitan Broadcasting Services Limited, held at Theophilus Ogunlesi Hall, University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan. The governor said: “Our administration has spent over N200 billion on road construction since we assumed office about seven years ago, because we realised the need to make our roads well paved for movement of goods and people as well as to beautify the environment, which has attracted foreigners and even local business interests to bring their businesses to Oyo State. “This is in line with our efforts at building an atmosphere of peace and tranquility for these businesses to thrive, as nobody wants to do business in a violent atmosphere, which informed the establishment of Impact African Television by the owners. READ ALSO: Suspension: I wasn’t given fair hearing –Omisore “We salute the courage of the board of directors and management for adding another television  in Oyo State, as this would also create a number of employment opportunities for our youths.” Ajimobi, however, enjoined management of IATV “to see to it that quality broadcast content is encouraged, because whatever is dished out from your station will have an impact on the viewers and the society at large. “Please be strict in maintaining values attributable to good African values. We are the owners of Yoruba language all over the world and our language portends quality representation of our culture. Let this be your watchword.” Executive Vice Chairman of Impact Group, Owolabi Oladejo, in his address, said: “Until now, Nigeria  did not have a media that was devoted  to issues of economic development and business, financial and investment information, hence, the vision for Metropolitan Broadcasting Services Limited. “Electronic media have a very great potential to impact people’s lives. Thanks to its widespread availability and reach to all strata of the society. Electronic media are, particularly, effective in providing life transforming information to people living in poverty or promotion of good policies and harmony in the society, which we will religiously observe.”