Charles Nwaoguji Exports from Nigeria to other countries of the world are very lucrative and can build the country’s economy overnight. Why we are not exporting enough products from Nigeria to other countries is simply. People used to think that it is only oil-related products that can be exported from Nigeria. That is not true. There are countless raw materials you can export from this country. In fact, it might really interest you to know that there are made in Nigeria goods that could be yielding enough foreign exchange to the country. Exporting non-oil products to other countries is not too difficult. All you need is to have a company that is export ready and adhere to the strict international standards guarding , import and export. Export guidelines All goods (including oil/its derivatives and non-oil goods) exported from Nigeria shall be subject to inspection by inspection agent(s) appointed for that purpose by Government. For the avoidance of doubt, goods prohibited for exportation from Nigeria as contained in the annual Fiscal Policy guidelines shall not be processed by the inspection agents. READ ALSO Embrace agriculture, Nigerian youths urged The inspection agent(s) shall inspect the quality and quantity of all exports as well as the true value of goods to the consignee and shall issue a Clean Certificate of Inspection (CCI) in respect of such goods within 72 hours after the inspection of the goods. However, where a written complaint or protest has been lodged by the consignee or his agent on oil and gas exports, the relevant CCI shall be issued within a maximum period of 30days. In the event of uncovering discrepancies that cannot be corrected immediately, the exporter shall be issued with a “Non-Negotiable Certificate of Inspection” (NNCI). It is, however, in the interest and integrity of the exporter to correct the discrepancies to enable the inspection agent(s) issue the appropriate certificate and endorse the commercial (final) invoice accordingly. Exporters shall open a domiciliary account with any bank in Nigeria and this same bank shall issue the Exporter with a Nigerian Export Proceeds Form (NXP Form) in sextuplicate for completion in respect of each export transaction, The Exporter shall ensure that the export proceeds are credited to this account. Export prohibition list You understand that not all products are allowed to go out of this country. Some of these products are stated below;
•Maize, •Timber (rough or sawn) Raw hides and skin (including Wet Blue and all unfinished leather) •Scrap Metals, •Unprocessed rubber latex and rubber lumps, •Artifacts and Antiquities, •Wildlife animals classified as endangered species and their products e.g. Crocodile; Elephant, Lizard, Eagle, Monkey, Zebra, Lion etc., •All goods imported You can start investing your money on these products below and you are sure of making cool money in no time. Yam tubers Nigeria is presently the highest producers of yam. In 2009 alone, yam export accounted for about $450 million exchange. But due to low quality, it is saddening to know that the country is not maximizing its export potential of this products. So there is need for prospective exporters of yam to adhere to quality regulations that is guarding the process. Yam farmers must take this into consideration and tap from this opportunity. Charcoal This is at the fore front in the international market. This product, which is produced in good quantity in Nigeria with now perfected technology, has about 50 per cent return on investment (ROI). Even an individual can own a charcoal production outfit and have exporters shipping it for him. A large market for charcoal exists in Asia, EU, and USA . A tone of this product goes for about $1000. Ginger Ginger is one of the most traded spices in the world which Nigeria happens to be among the largest producers. Why we are not exporting, ginger in large quantity is beyond me. You can start a Trans-Sahara or Trans-Atlantic trade with this goods and be making Naira on regular basis. Palm kernel oil Palm kernel oil is the oil extracted from the pulp of palm fruit which is different from palm oil. Palm Kernel oil is used for the manufacturing of various cosmetics, pharmaceutical products and confectioneries. The uses of this oil is broad and the mineral contents are said to be rich in protein for various uses . Nigeria has its quantum and makes Naira exporting , it to other countries of the world. Cosmetics and soap Nigeria has grown in this very important area but the only challenge that is holding us back is procurement of good technology to produce cosmetics in great quantity to compete favourably with other developed countries.
Soap making, which extends to other toiletries, launchries and so on are already export opportunity waiting to be invested in Nigerian cosmetics products can be exported to other African countries where they are badly needed. Textiles and garments This industry alone generates close to N320 billions as revenue from export from Nigeria. It is also a fact that unlike other products that battles with high strict rules of test, Nigeria’s textiles enjoy duty free passage into United States where it has the largest market in the world because of its unique designs, ethnic African designs and quality. READ ALSO Minister lauds tomato producers for curtailing waste Cocoa butter This is the real sources of chocolates of all types. The fruits of cocoa is used for the production of various skin care products, health products and pharmaceutical products. The demand for Cocoa is very high in both America and UK and that is why cocoa farming is very essential in Nigeria. Gallstone This is a clay-like solid substance gotten from the gallbladder of matured cow and oxen. The sizecould be as big as chicken egg. Gallstone is hotcake for foreign pharmaceuticals because they use it for medical purposes. If you could lay your hand on a good quantity of well dried gallstone about100g that is well packaged, ready buyers are waiting for it in either Asia or America. Rubber Nigeria has, put in place proper central testing laboratories to ensure that only certified products leave the country to Europe and America. Nigeria happens to be a significant producer of Rubber in Africa. A cubit meter of fine quality rubber goes for between $400 and $600 presently because of the instability of dollar rate in the matter. Sesame Seed This may sound a bit strange if you are not from the area where it is produced in the country. Sesame seed can be found in quality in places like Benue and Jigawa states in Nigeria. This product ranks second to cocoa in terms of export volume and foreign exchange earnings. Nigeria is the 5th largest producer of this commodity and shipping it into foreign countries bring dollars exchange. Honey Pure honey is another export commodity from Nigeria to other countries. Presently, a kilogram of honey cost about N150 in the international markets. Pure natural honey contains trace enzymes as sugar, mineral, vitamins and amino acids. A litre of honey can fetch good dollars in the foreign market.  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 