 …And, honestly, you won’t even mind the changes because the biggest change is your biggest reward: your child. Kate Halim Becoming a father can be one of the happiest moments in your life. It can also be the moment your life changes forever. As you embark into fatherhood, there are some things you should expect not to remain the same but this should also bring you joy. No one has to tell you that when you become a dad, your life is forever changed. Say goodbye to your social life or get plenty of sleep now, because soon you will be wishing you could when your baby finally arrives. But there’s also a bright side to the social and psychological changes you go through after becoming a dad. Most men need a little time to space out to think about nothing in order to recharge. Once you are a dad, you have to be creative to get this time back in your life, and you will probably feel like you need it more than ever, no matter how much you love spending time with your new addition. You may have to wake up 30 minutes earlier for work. You have to know that designating regular time for yourself isn’t selfish; it’s essential to being a focused dad. Now, you may constantly realize just how seemingly unqualified you are for the job of fatherhood; you may question your ability to care for a child, and your worthiness, every step of the way. But rest assured that you are not the first dad to feel this way. Although you are overly aware of your role as a provider, you may become intimidated and frustrated by what your gender’s limitations are. You can’t breastfeed, but you can help your wife get comfortable while she nurses. You may not have the instincts to wake up as easily when the baby cries in the middle of the night, but if the baby sleeps in your room, you can sleep on the side of the bed closer to the baby. That way, you will be more likely to wake up and better able to help out with those 2 A.M. feedings. You may feel guilty about leaving your wife and baby at home when you go out to do anything other than work or buy diapers. But just as you have to purposely set aside some time for yourself and your family, it’s important that you pencil in some time for your friends and hobbies, even if it’s considerably less time than before. The same goes for your wife. You instantly have new friends who relate to you, and they will likely have good and relevant advice for you. As for your existing single and/or childless guy friends, make time to do activities with them outside of your new-parents circle. That way, they can still relate to the old you and not feel intimidated by the new you. Gone are the days of being called just a guy, you will now be forever seen by all as a dad. The sports you used to play with your buddies eventually become the sports you teach your kids. And, honestly, you won’t even mind the changes because the biggest change is your biggest reward: your child.  