Aloysius Attah, Onitsha and Jeff Amechi Agbodo, Onitsha Five persons have sustained various degrees of burns following an explosion that occurred in a private owned gas plant located along Obosi/ Nkpor Road, Obosi, Anambra State. The incident, Daily Sun gathered occurred at about 8:28p.m.  on Tuesday night, though cause of the explosion and circumstances surrounding the incident were still sketchy, while the scene of the incident had been cordoned off by the police. Also, in Awada area of Obosi, yesterday, a mother and her 11-year-old son also suffered various degrees of burns and, now, battling for life in a hospital, following a kerosene explosion in their apartment. The one-bedroom apartment occupied by the victims was completely razed by the inferno. Confirming both incidents, the Police Public Relations Officer, Anambra State Command, Haruna Muhammed, disclosed that the gas explosion occurred at Regime Gas Plant, Obosi. READ ALSO: Archbishop Chukwuma hails Ugwuanyi’s commitment to children’s welfare He said it was the police patrol team attached to Obosi Division, led by the DPO, that rushed to the scene and cordoned off the area to protect lives and prevent looters from taking advantage of the situation. Muhammed said the rescue efforts by well meaning individuals helped to prevent the fire from escalating. The police spokesman said five staff of the company, who sustained various degrees of burns were rushed to Nnewi Teaching Hospital and are responding to treatment, while the case is under investigation. On the kerosene explosion,  Haruna said a serving policeman attached to Okpoko Division reported at Awada Police Station that his sister, Mrs. Blessing Uzoebo, residing at No. 9 Chukwura Odu Street, Awada, bought one litre of kerosene suspected to be adulterated from a local vendor within her neighbourhood. “In the process of filling her lantern with the product, it exploded and as a result of the explosion, the said Uzoebo and her 11-year-old son, Chima, suffered various degrees of burns,” he said. He said  police patrol team attached to Awada Division visited the scene and rushed the casualties to Pieta Hospital, Awada, where they are receiving treatment.