Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa Bayelsa State Governor, Hon. Henry Seriake Dickson, has sworn- in a six- member Commission of Inquiry to ascertain the immediate and remote causes of the civil disturbances and unrest that occurred in Amassoma, host community of the state-owned Niger Delta University, in Southern Ijaw local Government Area of the state. Governor Dickson who gave the charge in a nine-point Terms of Reference to the Commission during the swearing in ceremony of its members in Government House, Yenagoa called on communities hosting tertiary institutions in the state to protect educational institutions cited in their areas. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Francis Ottah Agbo said Dickson called on the Commission to identify the perpetrators of the unlawful activities and their sponsors if any. Dickson was said to have seized the opportunity to remind community leaders to always draw the attention of the state government to any breach to peace in their localities. The Commission of Inquiry which is expected to determine the number and identities of persons injured or killed during the civil disturbances, is also to determine the extent of damage to property, both public as well as private if any during the incident. Governor Dickson charged the people of the state particularly youths not to take laws into their hands but rather collaborate with security personnel to maintain law and order. He urged the Commission of Inquiry to recommend measures aimed at averting future occurrences of such incidents within and around the Niger Delta University and its host communities as well as make any other recommendations that may be deemed fit in the circumstances. According to Governor Dickson, the Commission shall take evidence in writing and orally to enable it perform its task diligently. He also directed the Commission to submit its report and findings within 30 days from the date of its first sitting. Governor Dickson also met with stakeholders of Amassoma community on the need to keep the peace and work with government for the stability and progress of the state. Chairman of the Commission of Inquiry, is the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Michael Zuokumor (Rtd), while Mr. Godwin Ebikake is to serve as Secretary. Other members are, Brigadier Gen. Abel Meremu (Rtd), Ibedaowei of Ekpetiama Kingdom, King Bubaraye Dakolo, Arch Bishop Jacob Apiri and Chief Gabriel Apaingolo.