 Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the renewal of the tenure of the Corps Marshal of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi.
With the approval, Oyeyemi begins his second and final term of four years with effect from July 24, 2018.
The approval was contained in a statement made available to journalists by the the Permanent Secretary (General Services Office), Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Olusegun Adekunle.
The President also approved the appointment of Amb. Yahaya Lawal as Senior Special Assistant to the President on Foreign Affairs and International Relations with effect from April 1, 2018.
Lawal replaces Amb. Ahmed Abubakar, who was recently appointed the Director-General of the National Intelligence Agency (NIA). President Buhari also renewed the appointment of the Chief Medical Director of the the National Hospital, Abuja, Dr. Jafaru Momoh, for second and final term of four years with effect July 5, 2018.
The Medical Director of the National Orthopedic Hospital, Enugu State, Dr. Nwadinigwe Uwatoronye, also got a second and final term of four years with effect from May 30 while the Director-General of the Energy Commission of Nigeria , Prof. Eli Bala, also got a second and final term of five years with effect from May 6, 2018. The Director-General of the National Board for Technology Incubation, Dr. Mohammed Jibrin, was also reappointed for his second and final term of four years with effect from April 9, 2018 while the Executive Vice Chairman of theNational Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure, Prof. Mohammed Haruna, also got a second and final term of five years with effect from April 3, 2018. The President also appointed Dr. Ali Adamu as the Provost of the Federal College of Education (Technical), Gombe, Gombe State for an initial period of four years with effect from May 25, 2018; and Dr. Yaya Adamu as Medical Director of the Federal Medical Centre, Keffi, Nasarrawa State for an initial period of four years with effect from April 1, 2018
According to Adekunle, “The appointees were enjoined to live up to the high expectations of the public for prompt, conscientious and self-less service at all times.
“The President urged them to regard public offices as trust that should not be betrayed.”