Emmanuel Adeyemi, Lokoja As the 2019 general elections draw closer, the Maigari and traditional ruler of Lokoja ,Kogi State, Alhaji Muhammadu Kabir Maikarfi III, has called on politicians not to heat up the polity by their unguarded utterances.
The traditional ruler who said the unity and progress of the nation should be Paramount to all Nigerians, said the issue of hate speeches if not checked could throw the nation into chaos. He also admonished the people of the State and Nigeria at large to ensure they don’t only register but obtain their permanent Voters Cards (PVC) to enable them vote for leaders of their choice.
The Maigari who stated this while chatting with newsmen in his palace, also expressed worry over the reluctance on the part of the electorates to collect their voters cards after they have been duly registered . He was speaking against the backdrop that many of the printed cards have been lying idle while their owners have failed to turn up to claim them at the INEC offices.
The Resident Electoral Commissioner for Kogi State Professor James Apam had expressed disappointment that as at 12th of June, 2018, only 7,943 cards out of the 112, 333 printed for the State had been collected by those who registered between April and December.
The Maigari asked those who lost their PVCS, to approach the Local Government area offices of INEC following due process, for replacement. He said they should be aware that the PVC remained their power to vote-in leaders they want to lead them.
The paramount ruler of cautioned Nigerians against hate speeches in order not to give the Nigerian fragile democracy more hiccups than it is already experiencing.
He challenged politicians to be honest in their promises adding that they should base their campaigns on issues rather than open attack on personalities.
The royal father called on the Muslim Ummah and the Christians to pray God to bring peace to the land saying that without peace there cannot be development.
He also urged them to pray that God may lead our leaders aright adding that citizens had the duty to obey constituted authority.
“As we mark the end of the holy month of Ramadan and celebration of eid el Fitri, let’s remember to pray for our brothers and sisters who travelled for the Lesser Hajj that they should return safely.” Maigari prayed God to grant all Muslim faithful who participated in the Ramadan fast to get all the reward for their sacrifices of mortification and self denial.