Bamigbola Gbolagunte, Akure Twenty-four-year-old Saliu is currently in custody at the Ondo State Police Command headquarters, Akure, for allegedly killing his 19-year-old girlfriend, Confidence. The suspect, while being paraded claimed devil led him to kill her: “I didn’t kill her intentionally. I heard a voice that told me to kill her and that was why I killed her.” He was paraded alongside other suspects and narrated: “After she came back from her West African Examination (WAEC) exams, people in our area told her that I came with another woman. She was so annoyed with that news and she came to my place on Saturday last week. She asked me why I slept with another lady and I told her it was a lie. “She started cursing me that if I make love with another girl, that I won’t make it in life. I pleaded with her but she insisted that I slept with the woman. I also rained curses on her and we engaged in serious arguments, which later led to a serious. She left with annoyance. “She came back later and I asked her to forgive me but she refused. I seized her phone and we were both inside the room dragging the issue. I was begging her to return the curse and she went out to tell one of our neighbours that I seized her phone. I did not know what came over me as I went to take knife and stabbed her to death. “This is a domestic matter and it should be handled as such. I didn’t kill my girlfriend intentionally but I was told to kill her and I did. I am indeed sorry for committing the offence.” Saliu said he regretted his action and ready to apologise to members of the deceased’s family. The command also arrested a three-man gang for allegedly beheading one Olawale Gbogi, a commercial motorcyclist in Akure. Parading the suspects, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Femi Joseph, said the victim was killed at Ihima, Kogi State. He gave names of the suspects as Abdullahi, Harruna and Liberty. He said the victim was asked to take them to Ihima from Ikare Akoko for N3,000 and he agreed but was later killed on the road. He disclosed that the victim upon getting to Ihima was directed towards a bush path where he was beaten and disposed of his motorcycle and his handset. He added that Abdullahi took the victim’s motorcycle and handset to Akure to look for buyer, while Liberty, Haruna and one Rabiu who is currently at large allegedly killed and took away the deceased’s head. He said the efforts of the police led to the arrest of Abdullahi in Akure with the victim’s handset and motorcycle: “The head was allegedly taken in a polythene bag to the house of an herbalist by Liberty but the herbalist refused to take it from him. The head is said to be currently in possession of Rabiu, now at large, while the remaining body of the victim has not been found. Liberty initially stated that his boss in Abuja, who he identified as Rama needed human head and the head has been sent to him.” The PPRO informed that investigation is ongoing to recover both the head and other parts of the victim, while the suspects will soon appear in court. He advised residents, especially commercial motorcyclists in the state to be mindful of those they engage in the course of their business transaction: “It still baffles us how this young man will decide to leave Ikare-Akoko for Okene in Kogi State for just N3,000 business and what happened to him is now history. It is very unfortunate.”