“I am concerned about some of the changes that the National Assembly has made to the budget proposals that I presented. Many of the projects cut are critical and may be difficult, if not impossible, to implement with the reduced allocation. Some of the new projects inserted by the National Assembly have not been properly conceptualized, designed and costed and will therefore be difficult to execute.” – President Muhammadu Buhari. “The Senate has seen the statement issued by our sister chamber, the House of Representatives, in response to the issues raised by President Muhammadu Buhari on the 2018 Appropriations while signing it into law earlier today, and we totally agree with the position stated therein. “It should however be noted that the action of the National Assembly while working on the budget was informed by the provision of the constitution on the need for inclusion, balance and the fact that the first responsibility of government is the security and welfare of all citizens.”- The Nigerian Senate “The budget is usually a proposal by the Executive to the National Assembly, which the latter is given the constitutional power of appropriation to alter, make additions or reduce as it may deem necessary. The Legislature is not expected to be a rubber-stamp by simply approving the Executive proposals and returning the budget to Mr. President. Therefore, the additions Mr. President complained of in his speech are justifiable.”- House of Representatives. The above quotes were carefully chosen. Those were the unfriendly banters between President Buhari and the leadership of the two chambers of the National Assembly. President Buhari, in his usual sanctimonious manner, last Wednesday, demonised the National Assembly as enemies of the people and crowned himself as the king and messiah of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
I hold no brief for the National Assembly. But in this instance, folks who can’t swallow falsehoods peddled by those who claim to be saints must not go to bed while Nigeria burns. Budget padding is not new. In 2016, when the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led Federal Government had the chance to pass its own first national budget, it bungled the process. Instead, the two chambers of the National Assembly, controlled by the same APC, went to war with the executive. In 2017, the same old tunes resurrected. This time, the then Acting President, Professor Yemi Osibanjo and his willing ally, Minister of Works, Power and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, accused the National Assembly of again tinkering with the budget. As expected, the accusations didn’t come without any rebuttal from the National Assembly. Osibanjo, obviously led on by his advisers, delayed the signing of the budget. After the unnecessary squabbles, he signed the bill into law. Three years after it was elected, the President Buhari-led government is still replaying familiar tunes. There are constitutional and commonsense posers we must raise. On my part, I will offer some interventions.
Is the National Assembly empowered by law to tinker with the budget estimate submitted by the executive? Should the National Assembly pass the estimates without any addition or subtraction? If the framers of the constitution had intended that the President alone should have power over budgetary proposals, they would not have enacted sections 59 and 81(1) of the 1999 Nigerian Constitution, as amended.
The National Assembly is the custodian of our commonwealth and national purse. According to Section 59 of the Exclusive Legislative List, 2nd Schedule, Part 1 to the 1999 Constitution, as amended, one of the most basic and fundamental powers of the National Assembly is the power to make laws in relation to taxation of income, profits and capital gains. If the constitution is clear on the powers of the Assembly to tinker with the law, on what basis is President Buhari crucifying the parliament? I have always argued and I will not stop now, if the executive can’t stomach the annual alterations made by the National Assembly, let it approach the Supreme Court, which in this case is the court of first instance.
Let it be on record that the National Assembly is not empowered to tinker with the budget submitted by the executive. This annual embarrassment has got to stop. If the executive fails to secure an interpretation from the court, let it seal its lips forever and stop embarrassing Nigerians. In the United States of America, the Congress has the authority to alter, increase, reduce or even introduce new items. The Congress, which is the equivalent of the National Assembly in Nigeria, possesses unlimited amendment powers in the budget proposals. It can change funding levels, eliminate or add programmes, add or eliminate taxes or other sources of receipts. When it suits us, we refer to the United States as a model. However, we find it inconvenient to adopt some of its working policies. The easiest way to destroy any democracy is to weaken its parliament. A weak parliament can’t question the excesses of the executive. Gradually, we are tilting towards that dangerous precipice
You don’t have to like the faces in the National Assembly. But the institution has to be protected jealously. If the administration of President Buhari is allowed to destroy whatever is left of the National Assembly, Nigerians will regret it. The executive has developed a pattern since Buhari assumed office over three years ago. Whenever the National Assembly institutes a probe panel to investigate any branch of the executive, the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, would secure a court injunction and halt the process.
Whenever the parliament passes a resolution that appears to be too critical of the executive, agents of the administration describe it as merely advisory. I recall when the Senate rejected the nomination of Ibrahim Magu as chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), those who should know better, twisted the law. Respected lawyers, including the Vice President, who doubles as a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), shamelessly argued that Magu didn’t need the confirmation of the Senate, even though it is clearly stated in the Act of the EFCC. That is how low we have sunk. Again, I blame the National Assembly. When those who should speak choose to look the other way, institutions of government will be destroyed. Although I cover the Senate, I doubt if I can boldly claim to understand the recruitment process of the spokesmen of the two chambers of the National Assembly. Unlike Mr. Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information and Culture, who has mortgaged whatever is left of his reputation to defend this regime, the spokesman of the Senate in particular, is sleeping. The image-makers of the National Assembly have ignorantly refused to tell their stories. I don’t know if it’s a sign of inefficiency or just negligence on their part. The frequent assault on the National Assembly must be challenged. Sadly, however, I don’t see that happening. Not with the current image-makers of the parliament. Next year, Bukola Saraki and Yakubu Dogara will exit the stage as President of the Senate and Speaker of the House of Representatives respectively. The parliament will outlive these folks. Let’s salvage whatever is left of the National Assembly and save this democracy.
Nigerians, this is your fight!  Re-the hypocrisy of June 12 Fred, it will be interesting to read a novel on Nkechi, your first love, while in primary 3. What an unusual time to be in love. On June 12 issue, only a self-deceiving Nigerian would believe Buhari’s decision to make it Democracy Day apolitical based on the timing and the jittery posture of PMB on 2019 presidential election.
It is rather stunning that a child of your age, in primary 3, could give an account of Abiola’s political misgivings in connivance with Abacha, Babangida and other military men at that time. But smartly enough, you brought Ahmadu Ali’s version of Abiola’s “negative” acts in politics as your source? No wise person will take Ali’s history on Abiola as indisputable. Abiola related kindly with people irrespective of tribe or status. His closeness to the military might be behind Ali’s tale by moonlight. Let him come out with facts of his fable on Abiola. Or was he part of the game?
– Lai Ashadele, Lagos. Fred, since I got stuck to your Sunday sermon, there is no going back. But this June 12 hypocrisy get the cake as I know you are now master of analytical expression. Fela said much about Abiola as a leading African coup sponsor. No doubt, Abiola was a philanthropist, but he would not have made a good president. Take Buhari as an example. Buhari should heed your advice and apologise as submitted. More grace dear Fred.
– Tobias Igbokwe, Abia.