Sola Ojo, Kaduna The Arewa Youth Forum (AYF), on Tuesday, expressed worry and concerned over what it called unnecessary and avoidable lost of lives in communities in Riyom, Barkin Ladi and Jos south local government areas of Plateau State where scores were gruesomely murdered. National President (AYF), Gambo Ibrahim Gujungu, in a statement he personally signed and made available to newsmen in Kaduna decried continuous senseless killings in the Northern Nigeria, blaming the Federal Government for its inability to halt the killings. Gunjugu said, “It is quite unfortunate that human lives are being lost almost on a weekly basis in Nigeria, mainly in the Northern parts of the country and the government is carrying on as if nothing is wrong in the country. “We are worried because AYF is of the view that this killing is avoidable if the government of the day rise up to the occasion of its primary responsibility to Nigerians which is the protection of lives and property. “The situation is also very bad and a sign of the failure of government because this is the government that campaigned and promised to tackle insecurity in the country and because of the situation then majority of Nigerians lined before them. “It is now quite unfortunate that after voting for the APC government, what we are witnessing today with this government is worse than what happened in 2015 before Nigerians voted out the previous government.” He then called on the government to act fast and deal with the situation before it is too late, “A situation where Nigerians are now feeling that they are not safe in their homes is not good for us as a people and for the peaceful coexistence. “We are calling on President Muhammadu Buhari to fulfilled his promise of bringing lasting solution to the killings across the country. “The President had come out to say that desperate politicians are behind the killings, we are challenging him to immediately arrest those behind the killings or stop the blame game and get to work. “We want to use the opportunity to call on the United Nations and the international community to urgently intervene and assist us in arresting this drift towards anarchy, since the present administration has shown lack of will and capacity to tackle the menace. “Apart from Plateau state, we also condemn the killings across the country, in Adamawa, Zamfara, Kaduna, Benue, Taraba and others. Enough of the blood shed”, he added. 