Linus Oota, Lafia Deputy Governor of Nasarawa State, Hon. Silas Ali Agara said President Muhammadu Buhari has shown that he is not only a democrat, but has honours democracy by declaring June 12 as Democracy Day in the country. The deputy governor said that June 12 symbolises the struggle and sacrifice made by countless Nigerians to established democracy as a way of national governance, noting that MKO Abiola and others gave their lives for the democracy we are enjoying today. Hon. Agara said that the proclamation by President Buhari will forever memorises the sacrifices made by these patriots who gave themselves in service of such a noble and rightful purpose, adding that the pronouncement has deepen democracy in Nigeria. This was contained in a press statement signed by media aide to the Deputy Governor, Mr. Godspower Ede, and made available to newsmen yesterday in Lafia. According to the statement, the move by the president has shown that he is an advocate of fairness, justices and sensitivity to the yearnings of the electorate, core attributes of modern democracy. “I wholeheartedly commend the decision of the president which I see as a credible move to not only deepen democracy but has actually honored democracy in Nigeria “The decision has solidified President Buhari’s status as an unflinching advocate of democracy, fairness and justice,” The statement says. The statement adds that the decision has finally resolved a sensitive issue that has torn many Nigerians apart for so long and will now unite and motivate everyone to uphold the tenets of democracy. “We are aware of the issues and sentiments that trailed the June 12 polls leading to its cancellation despite it been described by local and international observers as the freest, fairest and most peaceful elections ever held in Nigeria. “Yet President Buhari, a Nigerian of northern extraction has shown true statesmanship and unequaled leadership by healing the wounds of the past in declaring June 12, Nigeria’s Democracy Day and bestowing the title of Grand Commander of the Federal Republic (GCFR), a title offered only to the country’s Presidents, on Late Chief MKO Abiola, a southerner and acclaimed winner of the June 12 polls. “The President has proven he is a leader fair to all and sensitive to the yearnings of his people. “Apart from the posthumous gesture to Late Chief MKO Abiola, the President also graciously bestow the title of Grand Commander of the Order of Niger (GCON) on Abiola’s running mate and lawyer, Ambassador Babagana Kingibe and Late Chief Gani Fawehinmi,” Says the statement. The statement then urge all Nigerians irrespective of religious, tribal or political affiliation to rally behind the President in his quest to carry Nigeria to greater heights and position the country as a major democratic stakeholder in the eyes of the world.