Wednesday’s visit to traditional rulers in Ekiti State by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has been described as an afterthought and a damage-control mechanism that can never redeem the image of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its governorship candidate, Dr. Kayode Fayemi in the state. This was the position of the campaign organisation of the Ekiti State Deputy Governor and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate, Prof. Kolapo Olusola. KOCO said it was at the insistence of Fayemi that the monarchs, who were waiting for the Vice President at the palace of Ewi, were ignored. The group described Fayemi as someone who do not have regard for the Ewi of Ado Ekiti, Oba Rufus Adejugbe, and the entire traditional rulers in the state.   In the statement signed by the Director of Media and Publicity, Lere Olayinka, the PDP candidate said, “Unlike the APC, we in the PDP will continue to hold our traditional institution in very high esteem.” “It is insulting for the APC and Fayemi to have disrespected our Obas openly yesterday (Tuesday) and now come back to secretly apologise to them today (Wednesday). “We are also surprised that the Vice President could allow Fayemi to dissuade him from paying homage to the traditional rulers. “Most importantly, it is unexplainable for the Vice President to have wasted public fund to come to Ado-Ekiti twice within 24 hours just because Fayemi never regarded Obas in the state as worthy of being paid homage to. “However, like we said yesterday, we were not surprised that Fayemi made his guests, especially the Vice President to shun the palace of Ewi of Ado-Ekiti, because he cannot point to any major landmark achievement of his four years reign as governor. For four years, Fayemi promised to complete the Amphitheatre in the palace of Ewi, he never did. “The hall where Fayemi and his guests would have been received and the amphitheatre where his supporters would have seated were built by the PDP government of Governor Ayodele Fayose.”