George Onyejiuwa, Owerri Immediate past Governor of Imo state, Dr. Ikedi Ohakim has described his successor Governor Rochas Okorocha as a misnomer whose own party has accused of forgery and dishing out falsehood. He said that cannot run his mouth like a broken gong, the way Okorocha does, because Okorocha is far below his level Earlier in the week Governor Rochas Okorocha had said that the government of Ikedi Ohakim was the most hated and devalued of all the administrations since the creation of the state in 1976. However, Ohakim who spoke through his Media Aide, Mr. Collins Ughalla yesterday said, “I cannot descend to the level of dishing falsehood, familocracy, land grabbing, conversion of public assets to private use, corruption, inordinate acquisition of wealth. That Okorocha is a misnomer is not strange to anyone in Imo State and this is why he is hated even in the political party he spent billions of Naira belonging to Imo people to build. Today, he is an outcast in his own party”. Continuing, “No one should tell Governor Okorocha that he is anathema when members of his party see him as the Devil and dine with him with extraordinarily long spoon. And despite his ranting, Imo people know he has become afraid of me just before the race gets started. I can only assure him that his nightmare would end when I wins the 2019 governorship election and is sworn in the second time for one term only. Ohakim pointed out that Governor Okorocha thinks that he could continue to deceive Imo People by reeling out his so called achievements but that the people are in already in hurry to see him leave. According to him Okorocha’s achievements are well documented, and they include: “iberiberism, the highest infant mortality rate in the entire Southeast, dead healthcare system, lack of portable water and rural development, contract failure, wastages and financial recklessness, land grabbing, converting public assets to private use, skyrocketing unemployment, bastardized economy, dead bureaucracy, N200bn judgement debt, over N700bn debt, non adherence to the rule of law and due process, amongst others. Above all, the Okorocha family which had barely enough to eat has suddenly become stupendously rich after Rochas Okorocha became Governor. To Okorocha therefore, this too is an achievement worthy of celebration”. The erstwhile Governor said that he served Imo State for four years without incurring a kobo judgement but that Okorocha has wiped out in advance the entire 2019 and 2020 Imo State allocations for the incoming government just by recklessness and contravention of contract. He said that Governor Okorocha is already jittery that he will eventually be called to answer questions on how he had mismanaged the well over N1Trillion while still incurring massive judgement debts. “Imo people are also grateful that I built 720km quality roads, including the road that leads to Okorocha’s house in Ogboko, while another 325km were at various stages of completion before I left office. If I had continued Imo State would have had a brand new government house, a refinery, Oguta Deep-sea Port, Oguta Wonder Lake and Conference Center, Imo Free Trade Zone, Imo Freeway of 150km linking 19 local government areas with toll plazas, housing scheme for all, etc. I hereby challenge Governor Okorocha that within one week himself (even though he is a serving Governor) and I should take a walk along major streets in Owerri and test who is more popular and who has been rejected by the people”. He said. Ohakim disclosed that his next to Governor Okorocha will contain full indisputable facts and figures of Okorocha calamity in the state, that Imo people would then know between Okorocha and him who is a disaster. 