Damilola Fatunmise Chocolate-skinned actress, Folashade Olona, has revealed why she has been absent from movie location in recent times. She also talks about her new production, likes and dislikes, and reason men find her lips so attractive. Enjoy it. Tell us about yourself My name is Folashade Olona. I am from Iseyin, Oyo State but was born and brought up in Lagos. I’m very straight forward; I love giving people their privacy no matter how close we are. I am selfless and sometimes I can be difficult (to understand) for people that are not very close with me. How did acting start for you?
‎ I started acting in 2007. I did my graduation in 2012. I produced my first movie in 2011. My second production was Awawu, and I just finished another movie entitled, My Cross. I have featured in a couple of movies like Omo Elemosho, Kudi Klepto, Alakada 2, Minaj, Irin Ajo, and Aiye Mi to mention few. What were the challenges you faced when you started? There are so many challenges in the movie industry. I faced the challenge of being chocolate-complexioned. Some producers would complain that ‘if you are not fair in complexion, you can’t play a particular role’. Also, my petit stature, and the demand for respect from even those that are of the same age with you or you are older than; they always want you to worship at their feet. But thank God, I’m coping everyday. Everyone can’t like you regardless of your humanity. How do you get inspired? God is my inspiration. I put God first in whatever I do and He has never let me down.
How can you define love? Love is a deep feeling; it encompasses a variety of emotional and mental states. To whom love is shown, love is expected in return. You are a good-looking lady; tell us about the man in your life
I’m in a relationship and my man is everything I prayed for in a man. I pray it works out into a wonderful marriage as I planned with my partner. Have you ever been heart broken? Yes, I have been heartbroken before, and that was in 2008. Can you recall your experience? The point is that he got another lady pregnant in 2007. He later begged me that I should forgive him, that it’s a mistake, which I did. But the same thing happened in 2008 and I had to leave the relationship, changed my phone number and moved to Ibadan. Could you describe your ideal man and what it takes to win your heart?
Consciously, I’ve erased the ideal man thing off my head. I always pray for a man that will love me for who I am. There’s no perfect human being. It has been long we see you in movies, why the break? That’s true and thanks for noticing that. I have other things I’m doing aside acting. Acting is a jealous job, there’s no way you can combine it with another business, except it’s a mobile business. And thank God, social media is helping out now. I’m fully back and better. What project are you working on? Like I said earlier, I just finished shooting My Cross, which is still in post-production.
What are your dreams? My dream is to have a beautiful family, have a successful career and be able to give back to the society. Do you have any regrets for choosing acting? I have no regrets whatsoever for choosing acting as a career, because every profession has its ups and downs. Can anything stop you from acting? Hmm… if God says so, I will surely follow God’s words. It’s only God that can stop me from acting.
Aside acting, what else do you do? I am into events planning; I’m also into clothing, shoes, bags and jewelry business.
What part of your body attracts men most? I will say my lips. I get lots of compliments from men on the shape of my lips. How sexy can you be with your lover? Sorry to disappoint you, I’m not that romantic. I just try to learn everyday. 