 Laide Raheem, Abeokuta No fewer than four persons died, while 25 others sustained injuries in three separate road crashes which occurred on Saturday in Ogun State. In a statement on Sunday by the Public Education Officer of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Ogun State Command, Florence Okpe, the road accidents happened at Ososa-Ijebu along Sagamu-Ijebu-Ode-Benin Expressway, while two others occurred on the Lagos-Ibadan Expreway. Okpe, who disclosed that the crashes were discovered during the Day 5 of the Ogun State FRSC Command 2018 Eid-el-Fitri Special Patrol operations, said the first crash occurred along Sagamu-Ijebu- Ode Expressway at about 4p.m, when an unregistered Toyota Corolla car plunged into Ososa River, very close to Ijebu-Ode. She added that out of 12 persons who were involved in the accident, two persons, including a girl died, while 10 others sustained injuries. The injured victims, according to her, were taken to the General Hospital Ijebu-Ode for treatment, while the dead bodies were deposited in the morgue of that same hospital. In the second crash which occurred at the Fidiwo Area along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, at about 8a.m, two vehicles with registration numbers LSD 266 CK and AGL 554 respectively, two vehiclescollided with each other. Okpe, stated that the driver of one of the vehicles had earlier been booked by the FRSC Patrol Team for traffic infraction and barely three minutes later, the vehicle collided with another one traveling outward Ibadan. The crash, caused by wrongful overtaking at a ‘No Overtaking Zone’ due to the ongoing construction work in the expressway, also claimed two lives, while 10 others sustained injuries. The Ogun FRSC Public Education Officer, said the injured victims were taken to the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH) in Sagamu, while the bodies of the dead victims were deposited at the mortuary of a private hospital in Ipara-Remo. Meanwhile, the third accident, which also occurred on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, did not claim any life, but five persons were injured. The crash, according to Okpe, involved a Mitsubishi Space Bus, with registration number MUS 488 BC, a Toyota Hilux with registration number AD1657 RS and Honda Accord car, with number plate APP 75 CZ. Meanwhile, the FRSC Sector Commander in Ogun State, Clement Oladele, has enjoined motorists in the state to drive cautiously, partucularly along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway where road construction is going on. “Motorists traveling along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway within the 5 kilometre stretch of road where traffic is diverted by RCC, the construction company working around Sancrete and Fidiwo, close to the Four Square Church at Ajebo/Alapako/Ogunmakin are to obey the maximum speed limit stipulated on road signs along the corridor and avoid overtaking, to prevent possible collision with vehicles travelling in opposite direction. “They are to also obey traffic regulations and follow instructions from FRSC patrol teams and other traffic agencies,” Oladele stated. 