Edo State Governor, Godwin Ovaseki, has ordered the closure of all primary and secondary schools with dilapidated structures in the state, to pave way for reconstruction work. Specifically, pupils and teachers of Holy Aruosa Primary School, in Benin, have been relocated to nearby Agbado Primary School. Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr. Crusoe Osagie, said the decision to relocate pupils of Holy Aruosa Primary School was informed by the shocking reports that despite an earlier relocation order given by the state government, teachers in the school ignored it and went about their activities in dilapidated structures. “All such schools with dilapidated structures have been shutdown, with immediate effect. Students and pupils in the affected schools are, hereby, relocated to other schools which will be announced soon,” the governor’s aide said. He said the Secretary to the State Government, Osarodion Osagie, visited Holy Aruosa Primary School as early as 7:00a.m. yesterday, to announce the state government’s decision.
“The state government has ordered an investigation to ascertain why the initial relocation order of relocating the pupils and teachers was not enforced. “One of the allegations being investigated is that some teachers, who are refusing to be transferred out of the school, selfishly kept those kids in the school, under unsafe condition,” he said. On the ongoing reform in the state’s education sector, Osagie said: “On assumption of office in November 2016, Governor Obaseki ordered an inventory of facilities and the enumeration of primary and secondary schools in the state. “After the census, the schools were categorised into three: those in grade A are in good condition; those in B need little intervention and schools in grade C require total renovation. “It is obvious Holy Aruosa Primary School and Osula Primary School, among others, fell in the third category and require urgent attention. The worst of them, like Holy Aruosa, were shut down.”