Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa The people of Bayelsa East senatorial district, the senatorial district of former President Goodluck Jonathan, have thrown their weight behind the APC ahead of the 2019 National Assembly elections. The people declared their support over the weekend during the formal declaration of a two-time former Commissioner for Finance in Bayelsa State and chieftain of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Bayelsa state, Dr Silva Opuala Charles, for the Bayelsa East senatorial district presently occupied by Senator Ben Bruce. The senatorial district seat, which has been rotated among Ogbia, Brass and Nembe local government areas since 1999 on a one-term of four years basis, would see someone from Nembe producing the Senator for 2019. Speaking at the declaration ceremony held at the Civic Centre, Opu Nembe, leaders from Ogbia, Brass and Nembe lamented the lack of effective representation of the people and vowed to ensure the election of Charles to attract adequate development to the oil rich district. The leaders, which include HRH Ralph CanonSambo, the Ama Dabo 1 of SamboAma, Twon Brass, HRH Otonye Efebo Shidi, the Amadabo of Shidiama, Chief Augstine Okpu, HRH Consul Oluku, Chief Austin Aye- Martins Gboro, Mingi Yai Gboro 1 of Nembe, in their separate remarks expressed optimism that Charles would restore the lost glory of the senatorial district which is one of the live wires of the Nigeria economy. Charles in his address said that the APC remains the best hope to transform Bayelsa East and solve its current challenges. While lamenting that strategic development projects like the Nembe-Brass-Akassa road, Brass LNG, Brass Fertilizer and Brass Fish terminal have been left for too long on the drawing board, he assured that the projects would be pursued vigorously by APC leaders. According to him, it is time for Bayelsa East to get quality representation in the Red Chambers would be commensurate to the huge contribution of the area to the Nigerian economy. “We are suffering from huge developmental challenges. There are quality representations in other climes that have brought meaningful development to their areas. If we profile our contribution against the projects from the federal and state government, here is a huge disparity that needs to be addressed urgently if we must grow sustainability, and I have come on a rescue mission with the theme: Making Bayelsa East to work,” he said.