Tony John, Port Harcourt Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has called for the immediate re-jigging of the nation’s security architecture, and has expressed worries about the unprecedented insecurity and unwarranted attacks on unarmed communities by herdsmen. This was even as the management of Businessday newspaper has announced Wike’s nomination as “Businessday Governor of the Year 2017. He spoke on the insecurity in the country, yesterday, when he received the management of Businessday newspaper at the Government House, Port Harcourt. “This time, criminality is targeted at some communities. “Every time when they kill over 100 innocent Nigerians, the security agencies claim that three people have been arrested. “After the deaths, they announced that special forces have been deployed to invaded communities. “Will the special forces revive the slain persons? “We must talk of re-jigging the security architecture. The present setting is not yielding results. “We must introduce persons with new ideas and new thinking to check the ugly trend of insecurity.” He regretted that most of his colleagues were not interested in working for the people as they are more concerned with battling for second term. According to him, some governors, rather than stand for the people, in terms of the growing insecurity, preferred to hobnob with the president, begging for second term support. On the Businessday newspaper Governor of the Year Award, Wike said it would spur him to greater service. While dedicating the award to the people of the State, governor Wike noted that the success of his administration is a function of the support of the people. Earlier, Publisher of Businessday Newspaper, Mr Frank Aigbogun, said Wike emerged Governor of the Year because of his outstanding developmental strides. He said that the organisation researched into key performance indicators and reached the verifiable resolution that governor Wike deserved the honour. Aigbogun said the award ceremony will hold in Abuja on July 19, 2018. He also said that Businessday newspaper will collaborate with the Rivers state government to hold an investment summit to drive economic growth.