Emmanuel Adeyemi, Lokoja Crisis is currently rocking the new Social Democratic Party (SDP), in Kogi State, as the party is now reportedly split into three factional groups. The factional group , it was learnt, are being championed by three prominent politicians in the state who are said to be having governorship ambitions. One of the factions is said to be led by a two-term former Minister of Internal  Affairs, and Police affairs, Humphrey Abah, while a senator in the third republic, Alex Kadri, is said to be leading one group. The third group is said to be led by a former Accountant – General of the state, Ubolo Okpanachi. The three factions are said to be working at cross purposes as they reportedly hold secret meetings where they deliberate on how to outwit one another all geared towards 2019 governorship election. For example , it was learnt that one of the factional group is said to have slated July 7 for its state Congress where it will elect members of the state working committee, though another group is currently bandying a state committee members.  Some aggrieved members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state who felt short-changed in last Saturday party convention, in Abuja, who are said to have planned to join the new SDP, are said to be having a second thought as there seems not to be  a lead way to peace as each group continues to claim supremacy over one another. At a press briefing, on Tuesday, one of the factional state party chairmen of the crisis-torn SDP, Indah Abdulrahman, accused one of the factional leaders of running the party as his personal property and called on the national body intervene in the crisis. Meanwhile,  a Stakeholder’s meeting scheduled by Abdulraman and slated to  be held, on Thursday, is said to be heading to for the rocks as other factions are said to be prepared to boycott the meeting. While speaking on phone with our correspondent, the former minister of police affairs, Humphrey Abah, said  contrary to reports, there was no factional  group in the state as he was the only one championing a people- oriented party that will rescue the state from poverty and penury. He said as of now there was no state executives, saying July 7 has been slated where the new state executives will be elected and party followers to grace the occasion in their large numbers. 