A typical blind date is a date where you don’t know the person you are going to meet. You haven’t seen them, nor have you spoken to them or met them earlier. So the most important aspect you need to remember about blind dates is that it’s completely awkward for the two people involved. But you can change that. When you warm up to your date, your date will feel more comfortable around you. And that would leave both of you feeling relaxed and happy to be with each other within a few seconds of meeting each other. So if you want to ensure that you have a great time on your blind date, remember the basic etiquette for a happy time with your date. Have flexible expectations Avoid having very high or low expectations from the date. Head to the date with an open mind, and try to think of it as if you were going to meet a friend. If the chemistry clicks and both of you get smitten by each other, that’s good for you. Otherwise, you won’t feel disappointed walking away from the date after meeting a potential friend. Have a nice time When it comes to a blind date, the surprise is part of the package. Sometimes, it may be a pleasant surprise, and at other times, it may be a less-than-pleasant experience. But nevertheless, plaster a smile on your face and try to have the best time you can with each other. Don’t be rude Even if you find your date boring or someone who’s on the opposite end of your perfect definition of a lover, don’t treat them with disrespect. Be pleasant and finish the date with a happy memory, even if it wasn’t a perfect fairytale ending. Don’t walk away If you think you can’t tolerate your date or find your date extremely obnoxious, tell them you don’t like their behavior. Don’t just get up and walk away in the middle of the date. Not all humans are built in pairs to be perfect for each other. Be open to conversations To help your date feel at ease immediately, talk about yourself, your likes and your dislikes. In a blind date, both of you may have no idea about each other, so help each other open up by asking the right questions. Just so you know, work or leisure activities are always a good start for happy conversations
Dress smart Blind dates are tricky affairs when it comes to dressing up. If you have been set up on a date with someone you don’t know, don’t make your blind date feel awkward or uncomfortable because you have underdressed or overdressed for the blind date. Dress casually, but let your date see that you have made the effort to look presentable and attractive. Don’t be fake Don’t be fake just to impress your blind date. If you get fascinated by your date and want to make sure that your date likes you, be warm and interesting. But don’t ever lie blatantly just to win them over. After all, even if things do work out perfectly on the blind date, your lies may eventually end any chance of a possible romantic relationship. Don’t get overly sexual Just because it’s a blind date doesn’t mean you should treat the date lightly or disrespectfully, or think that the night would end with sex. Most guys and girls assume that people who indulge in blind dates are desperate or miserable. But it’s not always the case. So if you are meeting someone on a blind date, remember this isn’t an arrangement to have quick sex. Respect your date and play it slow. If things go the sexual way, good for you, if it doesn’t, well dating isn’t all about sex. Get a perfect place to meet If you are unsure about your blind date or don’t want to be stuck having dinner with someone you may not eventually date, it’s better to meet your date at someplace where you can walk away within thirty minutes if you are certain the date won’t work out. Be cautious Even if the person who set both of you up is a good friend, be cautious. Don’t give away too much information about yourself, or let your guard down and invite them home. Remember, you don’t know this person yet. Finish your date and go your own way. If things do work out in love’s favor, both of you can stay connected over phone and plan the next date if you feel comfortable with the idea. Speak your mind at the end of the date This is the most important blind date tip you need to keep in mind. Always speak your mind by the end of the date. Don’t leave your blind date hanging by a thread wondering what you felt about them. If you enjoyed the date and would love to meet your date again, make sure you express that idea. But if you don’t think both of you are compatible for each other, then express that thought very clearly in a friendly manner. This is very important because it will help both of you understand each other’s opinions about the date immediately and prevent any confusion in the future.