Moses Akaigwe 08072100049 Ever wondered why the Mercedes-Benz V-Class immediately became an international success following its market launch in 2014, and more so in Nigeria where it was unveiled by Weststar Associates Limited in 2017? Well, the ‘secret’ is the international growth strategy of Mercedes-Benz encapsulated in “Vans goes global” – which has as its goal to further extend the business unit’s technology leadership, expand existing brand activities and tap into new growth potential outside the core European markets.
This explanation was provided by Mr. Mirko Plath, Managing Director/CEO, Weststar Associates Limited (the authorised general distributor of Mercedes-Benz in Nigeria), while introducing the new Mercedes-Benz V-Class in Lagos recently. Plath disclosed that the V-Class fits in perfectly to the “Vans goes global” approach as it combines luxury, utility and performance for customers who want to have an enjoyable driving experience with the functionality of a van that can serve their daily needs for both personal use and work related activities. To satisfy the needs of the users, V-Class comes with features that include a generous interior space, an attractive exterior design, technological leadership, high quality equipment and excellent safety highlights that set it apart from its competitors. “Customers in Nigeria can now enjoy luxury and utility together in a van as the V-Class is built following the excellent standards of Mercedes-Benz passenger cars and is equipped with a generous amount of interior space to accommodate business and family needs of different customer groups. From the interior and exterior designs to the safety and driving assistance systems, the new V-Class is way ahead in its segment,” the Managing Director The vehicle comes in three different lines (Standard, Avantgarde and Exclusive) and in addition, an exclusive AMG line which comes with refined sportiness. The Standard V-Class line’s exterior design is equipped with16-inch steel wheels, halogen headlamps, a manual tailgate with fixed rear window and four individual seats in the rear. The Avantgarde V-Class line’s exterior is equipped with 17-inch light-alloy wheels, a waistline trim strip in chrome, separately opening rear windows, LED intelligent light system and an additional left sliding door. The Exclusive V-Class line’s exterior is equipped with 19-inch light-alloy wheels, a panoramic sliding roof, an “Exclusive” label on the fender, electric sliding doors and tailgate as well as the Avantgarde sports package. The modern, generously-dimensioned interior is exemplary in the Multi-purpose Vehicle (MPV) segment both in terms of its ergonomics and its visual and tactile value appeal. Design and materials meet the highest standards. This is seen among other features in the media display with a high-quality glass surface or the generously sized trim. Even more individually, exclusively and sportily, the interior of the V-Class can be optionally equipped with the AMG line and the Interior Design package or with the V-Class Exclusive and V-Class Avantgarde design and equipment lines as well as the Avantgarde Interior Design package available for this. Thanks to its engine with 7G-Tronic Plus automatic transmission, the V-Class boasts agile performance, superior handling characteristics, as well as low fuel consumption and high efficiency. For the Nigerian market, the V-Class comes in a vertical in-line 4 cylinder petrol engine with 211hp with an output of 155kW and a peak torque of 350nm – delivering plenty of driving enjoyment.
With its unique concept that combines the functionality of a van with the typical strength of a Mercedes-Benz saloon, the V-Class has endeared itself to customers in around 90 countries, including Nigeria.