Gyang Bere, Jos Inspector General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris, has deployed Commissioner of Police Bala Ciroma to the Plateau State command. This was apparently in view of renewed killings in parts of the state by Fulani herdsmen. Ciroma took over from Undie Adie two days after the incessant killings by the Fulani herdsmen that claimed several lives in Barkin-Ladi Local Government Area of the state. In a statement issued, in Jos, on Tuesday, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Tyopev Mathias Terna, said CP Bala Ciroma has assumed duty in the state as Commissioner of Police. “Today 26th June, 2018 a new Commissioner of Police, CP Bala Ciroma has assumed duty as the Commissioner of Police, Plateau State Command, Jos.  “Before he took over as the Commissioner of Police, Plateau State Command, he was the Deputy Commissioner of Police Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (CIID) FCT Abuja.” CP Ciroma, who hails from Yobe State, graduated from the University of Maiduguri in 1988 and joined the Nigeria Police Force as a Cadet Assistance Superintendent of Police on the 3rd March, 1990. He has served in different places and in various capacities in Nigeria Police Force. He has also worked in virtually all the six geopolitical zones of the country and in all Departments in the Nigeria Police Force. Meanwhile, Former Comptroller General of the Nigeria Immigration Service and an aspirant for Plateau Central Senatorial Zone, David Parradang, has urged Federal Government to overhaul its security apparatus with a view to checkmate influx of irregular immigrants and proliferation of arms. Parradang in a statement issued in Jos, while reacting to the gruesome killings in Barkin-Ladi Local Government Area of the state by Fulani herdsmen, said government should take stringent measures to checkmate influx of Fulani terrorist into the country. “Federal Government has to as a matter of urgency overhaul its entire security structure by equipping all security agencies for effective checking of our porous borders, proliferation of military assault weapons and influx of irregular immigrants to enable Nigeria survive the present contemporary security challenges confronting the nation.” Parradang was deeply saddened with the furious attacks which culminated in the death of several innocent lives, lamented that it was quit unfortunate that Plateau has been under siege in the past few months. He urged stakeholders, elders and other relevant authorities to collaborate through the formation of sophisticated intelligence framework and information gathering to help identify these senseless killers. 