Wole Balogun, Ado-Ekiti Candidate of the Mega Party of Nigeria (MPN) in the July 14 governorship election Ekiti State and a former Deputy Governor of the state, Adebisi Omoyeni, has promised better life for the people if he wins the July 14 governorship election. Omoyeni expressed sadness that Ekiti people were going through hardship allegedly inflicted on them by the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) administration. He said his experience as a former Group Managing Director of Wema Bank Plc and former Ekiti State Deputy Governor had prepared him for the top job. Omoyeni spoke on Tuesday at a welcome rally organized for as the MPN flag-bearer in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital and Ikere-Ekiti, his hometown. The candidate was joined at the rally by his wife, Mrs. Ayoade Omoyeni; the MPN National Secretary, Mr. Adeleke Adekoya; the state MPN Chairman, Chief Dare Adekolu and other members of the state executive. The train moved round Ado-Ekiti and addressed a rally at the party secretariat before moving to Ikere for another rally and homage to the monarch, the Ogoga, Oba Adejimi Adu Alagbado. He described the MPN as a better alternative to both the PDP and the All Progressives Congress (APC) which he accused of contributing to backwardness and underdevelopment of Ekiti. The MPN flag-bearer promised free education from primary to junior secondary adding that his administration will also reduce fees paid by state-owned tertiary institutions by half. Omoyeni also promised to execute free health service for children, pregnant women and the aged adding that an MPN government will bring prosperity to Ekiti. Denouncing the continuity agenda of the Fayose administration, Omoyeni urged voters to reject the ruling PDP which he accused of representing suffering and misery. He said, “Do you want continuity of suffering, sorrow, no salary, looting of our textile industry? Let’s join hands together to enthrone Mega Party because APC and PDP represent epidemic and death. “We want to make life easier for our people; we will tackle the problem of non-payment of salaries. I will ensure that all salary arrears are cleared within the first eighteen months. “We are here to rescue Ekiti from bad governance. Under our government, there will be prosperity in Ekiti State because we are going to harness all our resources for the benefit of our people. “We want to wipe off the agony and sorrow of the past and from October 16, when I become the governor, people will begin to enjoy real dividends of democracy.” Omoyeni urged party members to go to all nooks and crannies of the state to sell the manifesto to the electorate and market the party as a better and credible alternative. Adekolu said Ekiti treasury is safe in the hands of Omoyeni if elected governor noting that he would listen to the people of the state. He said, “To win an election, it requires a party that is on ground. The MPN is on ground in all the 177 wards and 16 council areas of Ekiti State and God has answered our prayers by giving us Bisi Omoyeni. “We are mobilizing our people to vote for him and by the grace of God, we are winning the July 14 governorship election in Ekiti State.” 