Aidoghie Paulinus, Abuja The Government of the Republic of Benin and Nigeria, on Thursday, agreed on ways to put an end to smuggling activities around the territorial borders. Ambassador of the Republic of Benin to Nigeria, Paulette Vekpa, disclosed the development to journalists after a closed door session with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, in Abuja. Vekpa said smuggling activities had been the huge challenge threatening the cordial bilateral ties between Benin Republic  and Nigeria. According to Vekpa, “The issue of smuggling of rice and other products from Benin to Nigeria has been an issue. We don’t really like that situation. “It is the biggest issue because it is affecting the good relationship between the two countries. It is not helping our country either because Benin is not gaining anything in the smuggling. “When we met at the meeting of the Heads of State in Lome the other day, I discussed that with the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, and we decided to have a tripartite commission to discuss about that. “These and some other issues are what I came to remind the minister about,” Vekpa said. Vekpa further said the bilateral relations between Benin Republic and Nigeria had been cordial, but for the smuggling activities that have been affecting the relationship. Also speaking, Onyeama said the meeting centred on how to  address the challenge of smuggling and how to enhance bilateral relations between Nigeria and Benin Republic. Onyeama said, “The most important thing is the smuggling and we are just trying to resolve that. We have set up internal mechanism in form of inter-ministerial committee on that.” Onyeama further said a tripartite commission had also been put in place with Niger, Benin and Nigeria, to address the issue of smuggling and to enhance the trade relations. Onyeama added that the tripartite commission is for the respective countries  to sit down and see how to enhance the trade relations, both regular and irregular trade. Onyeama also said Nigeria and Benin Republic also agreed to resuscitate the joint bi-national commission between the two countries.