Clement Adeyi, Osogbo Ahead of the Osun State governorship election scheduled for September 22, this year, the Civil Societies Coalition for the Emancipation of Osun State (CSCEOS) has called for the screening of party flag bearers before the election proper. The non-governmental organisation stressed that the screening became imperative to ensure that it is only credible, honest, people-oriented and Democratic candidate  that would be fielded by the various political parties out of whom the best would be elected to govern the state in the next political dispensation. Chairman of the organisation, Mr. Alimi Sulaiman, who stated this, on Tuesday, in Osogbo, said that it would conduct a non -party independent investigations and screening for all the candidates after they had emerged through the parties’ primaries and disclose its findings to determine if they have the clout to win the votes of the electorates. Sulaiman stressed that such background screening would lay the foundation for the emergence of most competent and credible candidates for the governorship election. He said that  Osun State needed a governor that would deliver the people from the claws of impoverishment brought on them by the current administration and put an end to poverty. “The CSCEOS is seeking the original Omoluabi to lead the state out of the financial mess it was dragged into by the current administration and set her on the path of sustainable human and fiscal development,” Sulaiman said. Sulaiman said the primary reason for the existence of government was to deliver the dividends of democracy needed by the people who gave them their mandate. He said that any candidates who failed to undergo the screening exercises which would be set up by the CSCEOS would be dragged before the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) for appropriate actions. According to him, such persons would be described as one with questionable character and not fit to govern the people. ”We want credible candidate that would be faithful to their oaths and also competent in steering the affairs of the state,” he stressed. ”Such persons will be expected to deliver the dividends of democracy to the suppressed and also take the impoverished out of their shackles of poverty,” he added.