Rose Ejembi, Makurdi In the early hours of yesterday, suspected Fulani herdsmen launched a deadly attack on Guma and Logo local government areas of Benue State, killing nine persons. Daily Sun gathered that eight persons were killed in Tse Shan in Saghev, Guma LGA, while one person was killed in Tse Igbur village in Logo. Sources from Guma said that the armed militiamen, at about 3am yesterday, attacked Tse Shan village, shooting in all directions, and the villagers, who were just returning home after months in IDP camps, ran for safety. Our sources said eight villagers were killed and the corpses have been recovered, while several residents are said to be missing and many more injured. The chairman of Guma LGA, Mr. Anthony Shawon, lamented that the victims included two students who came to write the National Examination Council (NECO) exams in the community. Shawon told our correspondent that he has already submitted the report of the attack to the special adviser on security, Col. Paul Hemba (rtd), adding that both the dead and the injured have been conveyed to Gbajimba General Hospital. Shawon stated that he also received information that, while retreating, the militia attacked several people along their routes, with one body discovered along the road in Logo. A community leader in Logo, Chief Joseph Anawah, who confirmed the attack on Tse Igbur, said the herdsmen attacked the area at 9:30pm on Tuesday, killed one person and injured many. Anawah, who had earlier raised the alarm over the withdrawal of security agents posted to the area on Sunday, alleged that the sudden withdrawal of the security operatives was to give the killers the opportunity to strike. “We earlier suspected sinister motives by the sudden withdrawal of security posted to this area. It appears like a collaboration with the killer herdsmen by the military,” he said.
Our correspondent gathered that the commander of the 72 Special Forces Battalion has dispatched soldiers to the scene of the attack. According to Hemba, the attackers possibly came from a base in Logo LGA. The police could not confirm the incident at the time of filing this report.