Wole Balogun, Ado Ekiti Governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose, has warned candidates, voters and stakeholders against inciting violence in the state with the aim of robbing Ekiti people of not only the free will to chose their next governor. “This state deserves peace and anybody that brings violence would come under the judgment of God. We hand Ekiti over to God and we pray that anybody, including myself and any politician that brings violence to this state would face the judgment of God,” he said. Governor Fayose made the remarks while presenting the candidate of his party, Prof. Olusola Eleka, to the Ewi of Ado, Oba Rufus Aladesanmi Adejugbe, monarch of Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State capital. He handed the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate to the Ewi-in-Council, who in turn presented them to the Ewi as tradition requires. Governor Fayose also explained reasons why he threw his weight behind Eleka’s running mate, 39-year old Ogunsakin, stating that the fact that he comes from Ado Ekiti which gave him the largest votes in 2014, and also a Muslim representing the Muslim community and most importantly, he is a young man who would represent the interest of the youths. “Ordinarily, we wouldn’t have supported Ogunsaki, but for the fact that he has performed admirably well as Chairman of Ado Local Government Area and hails from the town, which gave me highest votes in 2014, and also the fact that he served well as Head of Due Process in my cabinet, and also that he is a Muslim who represents the interest of the hitherto neglected Muslim community in Ekiti and most importantly, I want to actualize the dream of our youths who have clamoured for active representation in government. I am not a kind of person who makes promise and not fulfill it. With Ogunsakin, we have shown to the world that we want the youth to participate in government in support of the not too young to run law.” Fayose who expressed confidence that the PDP candidates would get overwhelming support of the people of Ado Ekiti where Ogunsakin hails from and Ikere-Ekiti, being the second largest in population to Ado Ekiti in the state and where the governorship candidate, Prof. Olusola hails from, said: “I am a chief of the Ewi’s palace. Beyond that, I am also the governor of the state. We have to do things properly and bring our deputy governorship candidate, Kazeem Ogunsakin, who is an indigene of Ado Ekiti, and a Muslim from this community to the Kabiyesi. If you look at the impact we have made in this palace, you would know that they would forever remember us for our giant strides. Continuity is good for the state and for a professor who has made great impact for the state in education and also for Ogunsakin, they are a perfect combination to continue our good works and even do it better.” Responding, the Ewi of Ado, thanked Governor Fayose for the capital projects he has put in place to beautify the capital city and prayed for him .The monarch who described Fayose as an uncommon man, said he always prays to God to make his children have the kind of fortune that the heavens have bestowed on the governor. Recalling that Olusola had worked assiduously to achieve success in the state education sector, the Ewi identified both Olusola and Ogunsakin as men of good nature, sound mind and well behaved. “Politics apart, if we examine our city, Ado Ekiti four years ago, we would all agree that Governor Fayose has performed very well. I have always prayede to God that just as he has blessed Fayose with good fortunes, he should bless my children also. I also, pray for the well being of Fayose, his family and loved ones. He is God sent and has been delivering divine agenda in Ekiti. He has said God chose Olusola to suceed him and we accept it from him. We will continue to pray for Governor Fayose’s success. He will continue to excel and triumph over his enemies of his progress. You have done Ado Ekiti very well, Ado Ekiti will not forget you,” the monarch said.