Layi Olanrewaju, Ilorin Governor Nasir el-Ruai ofbKaduna State, on Thursday, in Kwara State, hailed the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Ibrahim Idris, saying he was doing an excellent job. el-Rufai made the commendation in Oro town of the state at the annual Ramadan Lecture organised by the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed who is a native of the town. The police boss just had passed against him a vote of no confidence by the National Assembly who considered his actions and inactions antithetical to democracy The lawmakers raised against the police chief issues such as his failure to personally appear before the Senate when summoned on the state of Security of the nation, the invasion of the Senate and carting away of the maze by some miscreants and the invitation of the Senate President, Bukola Saraki for interrogation over Offa bank robbery. Saraki is a former governor of Kwara state and, at present, a strong political leader in the state. El-Rufail, praised the police boss at the occasion when he was thanking Chief Imam of Oro, Mikhail Onisan for praying for the nation and leaders. He said: “I thank the Chief Imam for his prayers for the country, President Buhari, the Inspector-General of Police who is doing an excellent job, the minister of Information and others. May God accept his prayers.” The Kaduna state governor who said he was at the programme because he was unable to attend the last year edition he was also invited for commended the guest lecturer, Prof. Raheemson Olawale whom he said pointed out good things people do in the country and also spoke against the bad practices of the people. He prayed that God should favour President Buhari with good health as he leads the country. Also speaking, the Minister, Mohammed, praised El-Rufai as he described him as a detribalised Nigerian saying he believes in merit rather than tribal or religious sentiment. Mohammed while noting that most chiefs of the Oro community who attend the annual lecture are Christians and that some of the editions of the programe were held at a church compound described the community as religiously harmonious and tolerant and advised other communities of the country to emulate the community. Ends. Click here to Reply, Reply to all, or Forward
5.09 GB (33%) of 15 GB used
Manage
Terms – Privacy
Last account activity: 0 minutes ago
Currently being used in 1 other location Details 