Stanley Uzoaru, Owerri Chief of Staff to the Imo State governor, Ugwumba Uche Nwosu, a frontline governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has described the rumour being peddled by his political opponents that his ambition was sacrificed by Governor Rochas Okorocha to retain the party structure in the state as ‘baseless and unfounded’. Briefing newsmen shortly after his arrival from Abuja where he attended the APC Convention, Nwosu said that rather, his chances of actualising his governorship ambition in 2019 now looks more certain. He expressed confidence that with the emergence of a strong and unbiased leadership in the APC led by Comrade Adams Oshiomole, internal democracy would be restored in the party. According to him, “Those peddling the rumour that the Governor, Owelle Rochas Okorocha, has exchanged my ambition for the party structure are only jittery. In fact, my chances under this new leadership of our party are brighter because those that had perfected plans on how to compromise and manipulate the primaries like they did with the APC Congresses are no more, we now have a crop of leaders that will certainly abide by the ideals and core values of our great party”. He continued, “My ambition is divine and no man can alter it. Owelle Rochas Okorocha is only committed to producing a successor who will continue the good work from where he will stop. “What is paramount in our mind now is to galvanise our party and reconcile those that are nursing various grouses and position for victory in 2019 and not wasting energy on baseless issues. “Rather than engage in falsehood and campaign of calumny, members of the group that ganged up against the governor should apologize and return to the party and work with Owelle Rochas Okorocha to move our party forward”. Meanwhile, Nwosu has described the emergence of Oshiomole as the National Chairman as the best that could happen to the party at this period, while commending President Muhammadu Buhari for allowing democracy to prevail throughout the election. Nwosu said, “Let me also commend President Buhari, the National leader of our great party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the Progressive Governors’ Forum led by Owelle Rochas Okorocha and the Chairman and members of the Convention Committee for their sacrifices in the conduct of our National Convention that has made our party the envy of the opposition parties”.