Paul Orude, Bauchi Following the powerful windstorm that wrecked havoc and killed scores in parts of the state capital on Saturday, President Muhammadu Buhari, on Thursday, visited Bauchi State to commiserate with the government and people of the state. He was earlier in Azare where he also commiserated with the people  over the unfortunate fire that destroyed properties worth billions of Naira. The windstorm killed eight people, injured over 120, destroyed 349 schools, 300 poles and affected , 5,000 houses. Barely 24 hours after the windstorm, a wild fire burnt down over 1, 000 shops at Azare Central market, the second largest city after Bauchi. President Buhari on Tuesday sent a delegation led by the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu to commiserate with the state over the disasters. Buhari who arrived the Sir Abubabakar Tafawa Balewa International Airport, Bauchi at about 9.30am on Thursday, was received by the Director-Genral of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), Mr.Mustapha Maihaja, Bauchi State Governor, Mohammed Abubabakar, Secretary to the Bauchi State Government, Umar Nadada and other top government functionaries. From the Airport, the President, in company with the Bauchi State Governor, Mohammed Abdullahi Abubabakar, and the DG, NEMA, took off in a helicopter for Azare, Katagum Local government area of the state. Speaking at Azare, President Buhari who was moved to tears,  prayed God to console the victims and urged them to accept it as an act of God. He, afterwards paid a condolence visit to the Emir of Bauchi, Alh. Rilwanu Suleiman Adamu. In a very brief speech, he told the Emir that he was in the state to commiserate withe the government and people of the state over the incidence. Buhari called on the people of the state to accept the two incidents as acts of God. In a response, Adamu, expressed appreciation to the President for the visit. The Emir said that the visit of the President was a reflection and demonstration of his love for the state and described him as a kind leader.