As Nigeria and the global community reel from the gruesome killing of over 200 persons in Platueau State by herders, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) said it has uncovered fresh plots to attack Southern Kaduna and other areas dominated by Christians in some states in the Middle Belt region. A statement signed by Pastor Adebayo Oladeji, Special Assistant (Media and Communications to CAN president, Rev. Samson Ayokunle, claimed that some of the planned attacks are targeted at Southern Kaduna chiefdoms and towns that include Gumel, Dagwarga, Daddu, Mariri, Kagoro, hotels, open university and other soft targets. “While we are prone to dismiss these planned attacks as products of figments of imagination, we are, however, constrained to call the attention of President Muhammadu Buhari and other security agencies to be aware and take precautionary measures. Having witnessed unprecedented human carnage on the Plateau, we call on President Buhari to place the security agencies on red alert in order to avoid a similar recurrence.” Scores were killed when herdsmen attacked Plateau communities recently. Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo and Buhari were in the state on Monday and Tuesday respectively on a condolence visit and on-the-spot assessment. While in Jos, Osinbajo had announced that more military personnel will be mobilised to the state to restore peace, while Buhari reiterated the commitment of government to end the killings. Although happy at the statement by Osinbajo that perpetrators of the carnage would not be allowed to escape justice, CAN reminded and appealed to the Federal Government to stand by its promise to ensure that the bloodthirsty herdsmen were brought to book to face the full wrath of the law. “As the umbrella organisation for all Christians in Nigeria, we are at pains at the tragedy that has befallen our members. We mourn the death of over 200 Christians slaughtered on the Plateau at the weekend and we passionately appeal to the Buhari-led Administration toriseupandputastopto further killings of innocent people, including defenseless women and children.” Meanwhile, comprehensive list released by CAN has put the casualty figure at 218 with many were still missing and scores nursing various degrees of injuries CAN, in the statement, called on all security agencies to wake up to their constitutional responsibilities of protecting lives and property. “We urge them to be proactive in doing their jobs. Mobilising troops and policemen after the havoc has been done does not make sense. A government that cannot protect the citizens is a failed government.” CAN repeated its call on President Buhari to replace all the security chiefs and the Inspector General of Police, Abubakar Idris, claiming thattheyhave overstayed their welcome. According to the statement: “It is ridiculous and embarrassing that in the last three years, none of these criminals have been apprehended, detained, arraigned and convicted. This is what is emboldening them to kill the innocent with impunity. We are approaching a state of anarchy faster than we can imagine. Why are we following the footpath of Rwanda daily with these unprecedented killings and mass burials when we are not at war?”