■As police deploy 5,000 men, 2 helicopters Iheanacho Nwosu; Molly Kilete, Abuja Leaders of the South East zone of the All Progressives Congress (APC) may have agreed to drop Sen. Osita Izunaso for the office of National Organising Secretary billed to be decided in today’s national convention of the party. In his place, the zone has lined up either Hon. Chidi Nworgu or Longinus Anyanwu for the position. The leaders are however split on the aspirants for the two of the three National Working Committee (NWC) offices ceded to the zone by the party. The offices are National Treasurer and National Vice Chairman (South East). They are currently occupied by Chief George Moghalu and Emma Enekwu.
Two stalwarts of the party told Saturday Sun that the decision to back out of the zone’s earlier endorsement of Izunaso to retain the position of National Organising Secretary followed a clear message from the presidency that the former lawmaker should be replaced. South East APC in its recent stakeholders meeting at Sheraton Hotel, Abuja endorsed Moghalu, Enekwu and Izunaso for re-election into their current offices.
However, it was learnt that while the presidency had no problem with the endorsement of Moghalu and Enekwu , it rejected that of Izunaso. A chieftain of the party who pleaded anonymity claimed that the presidency’s decision on Izunaso was taken the same day the National Chairman of the party, Chief John Oyegun was asked not to re-contest. “We met and agreed that our three National Working Committee members should return to their offices. However, we later learnt that the presidency does not want Izunaso back to that position.”
In a bid to find a way to resolve the issue, he disclosed that the Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu was asked to meet President Muhammadu Buhari and brief him on the decision of the South East APC on the three aspirants. Onu, he said, at the zone’s meeting held early in the week said he was yet to get appointment with President Buhari. As a result of the development, a five man committee comprising Onu, Minister of Labour and Productivity Dr. Chris Ngige, former governor of Abia State, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, Deputy Governor of Imo State, Prince Eze Madumere and Director- General of Voice of Nigeria (VON) Osita Okechukwu was set up and asked to seek appointment with President Buhari to present the choice of the zone.
He said the committee is still hoping to meet with the president “even if it is hours to the convention. We need to table our choice before him and get his approval”, he said. Another chieftain of the party from the zone said the president’s minders told South East leaders that while the President has no problem with other aspirants they endorsed, he does not want any discussion on his rejection of Izunaso. He said the presidency is tacitly in support of electing Nworgu , a former House of Representatives member who is also the coordinator of APC ex-lawmakers in the South East.
Meanwhile, the Nigeria Police Force headquarters, Abuja, has deployed 5,000 personnel for security duties to ensure a hitch-free National Convention of the All Progressive Congress (APC) at Eagle Square, Abuja, today. Force Public Relations Officer, Jimoh Moshood, who made this known in a statement, said apart from the 5,000 personnel, the police have also deployed Police Mounted Troop, The Dog Section (K9), the Force Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Department (FCIID), the Police Air-wing and the Force Armament Unit for the exercise. He said the police security team, which would be headed by the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Department of Operations, would among others provide adequate security for all the accredited participants at the convention and at all the accreditation centres. Jimoh, in the statement said, “the Inspector-General of Police, IGP Ibrahim K. Idris, has directed the implementation of a robust Security Arrangement to ensure a secured and hitch-free convention. A total number of Five Thousand (5000) Police Personnel comprising, the Police Mobile Force (PMF), the Counter Terrorism Unit (CTU), Special Protection Unit (SPU), the Explosive Ordinance Department (EOD), the Police Mounted Troop, The Dog Section (K9), the Force Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Department (FCIID), The Police Air-wing and the Force Armament Unit, have been deployed under the supervision of the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Department of Operations, to ensure adequate security for all the accredited participants at the convention. Security coverage has been provided also at all the accreditation centres. “In addition, two (2) Police Helicopters, Six (6) Armoured Personnel Carrier (APC) are already deployed for the security of the convention. Personnel of other security and safety agencies are also being deployed to complement the Nigeria Police Force in ensuring adequate security and a hitch-free convention.”