Desmond Mgboh, Kano Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State has said that a former Governor of Kano State, Sen. Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso and his followers, in the state, have no capacity to undermine or stop his re-election in 2019. Dismissing Kwankwaso’s influence in the upcoming 2019 polls,  Governor Ganduje stressed that, “Power belongs to Allah who gives to whoever He wishes and takes away from whoever He so wishes. As such nobody, however positioned he may think he is, can stop us from winning our election. We place everything in Allah’s hand.” The governor was speaking during a courtesy call on a former Minister of Labour and an elder of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Alhaji Musa Gwadabe, in Kano. The visit, a part of the Sallah homage, also took the governor to the home of another elder of the party, Alhaji Salisu Buhari. The governor added that, “Whoever says he is ready to face us, we are also ready for him or for them. We are assuring you that there is no fracas in our party All Progressives Congress (APC), anymore.” “Our elder (referring to his host), we are assuring you that crisis in not in our dictionary at all. When we had the local government elections in the state,  there wasn’t a single fight for the purpose of the election,” he said. He added that the party recently conducted congresses from ward to local government  up to state level without crisis adding that, “Not a single person was injured. Everything was successful and peaceful” In his remarks, Gwadabe assured the governor that all the parties that merged in the formation of the APC  were with him in all his political activities. Meanwhile, Ganduje also revealed that several efforts designed to reconcile him and his former boss failed given that Senator Kwankwaso rejected all such moves. According to the governor “There was a time when we were assembled in a room with some elders all in an effort to reconcile us. But he threw away the good move,  to the dismay of all of us gathered there, he bang the door on us,” Ganduje said .  