Ndubuisi Orji,  Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), on Friday, demanded the immediate release of Sen. Enyinnaya Abaribe,  who was arrested by the Department of State Security (DSS), on Friday. The PDP, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan,  expressed fear over Abaribe’s safety,  stating that the government has not yet given for the arrest of the senator,  whom, it said is being held incommunicado, without access to his lawyers and associates. The opposition party added that the Gestapo-style in which Abaribe was arrested has further confirmed it’s arlier alarm that the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led Federal Government has commenced a total clampdown on the opposition and perceived opponents of President Muhammadu Buhari’s 2019 re-election bid. Recall that Ologbondiyan had at  a press briefing in Abuja on Thursday raised alarm that the government has commenced a clampdown on key opposition figures and perceived enemies of the President,  ahead of the 2019 general election. The PDP linked Abaribe’s arrest to alleged moves by the government to intimidate members of  the National Assembly who have been outspoken against alleged constitutional violations and misrule of the APC administration. ” The party also notes the apprehension of Nigerians following numerous alleged plots by the Federal Government to frame up other lawmakers, including Senate President Bukola Saraki, Deputy Senate President, Senator Ike Ekweremmadu, as well as Senators Dino Melaye and Shehu Sani. “Nigerians can now see that our dear nation is fast descending into a fascist state where constitutionally guaranteed freedom of speech no longer obtains and citizens are marked, arrested and detained on the whims and caprices of those in power. “The PDP charges the DSS to immediately declare Senator Abaribe’s whereabouts, as well as the charge against him. Moreover, the laws of our nation are clear on the process of arrest and prosecution of any citizen and not recourse to clampdown and intimidation, “it noted.