•Banks on Volgograd heat to beat Iceland Coach Gernot Rohr has charged his wards to focused and not lose concentration all through the game as they battle Iceland in a make-or-mar clash. Rohr had told the media in Essentuki on Wednesday that he had been drawn to a plethora of suggestions in the media space on best formations, patterns and appropriate player-position-cum-strength postulations following the reverse against Croatia, but that he knows what is best for the team and will deploy same on today. “We have watched the game against Croatia again to see our mistakes so that we can correct them. It will be a tough game. We have to be at our best and be more professional with our defending especially from set pieces. “We have to be fully focused and not lose concentration all through the game. I believe with hard work we can get a good result. In truth, there is no need to add to the pressure we have now. More pressure on the team will not necessarily translate to better results.”
Captain Mikel Obi, widely analyzed not to have functioned effectively in the advanced midfield role against the Croats, said he would be ready to feature in any position for the team as determined by the coach. “I am ready to play in any position the coach wants me to play. I am comfortable with either role: offensive or defensive. The most important thing is the team.”
Friday’s win-or-bust situation is expected to bring the best out of this new generation, with victory guaranteed to be a statement of strong mentality and capacity for turning around adversity, which would do career progression and equity at national team and club levels no harm. Meanwhile, Rohr has said he will welcome the heat in Volgograd if it will be an advantage for the Super Eagles against Iceland today. The heat in Volgograd will be similar to what is obtainable in Nigeria, which temperatures ranging between 26 and 35 degrees on match day. “It could be better for Nigeria but most of them now play in Europe,” he said. “If it would be an advantage for us, we will be happy to take it. “There will be 20,000 fans from Iceland for this game, so it’s an away game for us. “There were 25,000 fans from Croatia in Kaliningrad.”