■Asks opposition presidential aspirants to shelve ambition Agaju Madugba, Katsina The Emir of Daura, Alhaji Umar Farouk Umar, has urged politicians currently jostling for the presidency in 2019 to shelve their ambition, arguing that they are on a wild goose chase as President Muhammadu Buhari already has the mandate of the people to continue in office. “Buhari will shock Nigerians by the time he begins his second term in office in 2019 because he is poised to transform the country beyond their expectations,” the Emir said on Friday in his palace.
The Emir spoke when a former Governor of Abia State, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, led a team from his National Movement for the up re-election of Buhari to visit Daura, Buhari’s hometown. According to the Emir, “Nigerians will eventually beg Buhari to do a third term by the time they begin to see his performance from 2019. Anybody opposing Buhari’s second term is wasting his time because the people have already taken the decision for him to continue in office. Buhari will come out with his real colour in 2019 and that is when Nigerians will see a new Nigeria that they have always desired.” He urged Kalu to sustain the re-election Buhari campaign noting further that, “with God’s help, he will deliver us.” The former governor had earlier told the Emir that he was at the palace in continuation of his visit to traditional rulers across the country, to solicit their support in the campaign for Buhari to get re-elected in 2019. According to him, “we know that President Muhammadu Buhari is the son of the soil but we want you to advise the people and even beyond Daura, to vote him again in 2019. We want to make sure that our 4+4 is realised because those who are against Buhari’s return want an opportunity to loot the treasury.” Kalu had earlier visited the Katsina Government House on Thursday evening where Governor Aminu Bello Masari, described Buhari as being ready to pay the supreme price, if need be, in a determined effort to return Nigeria to the path of sustainable development. “President Muhammadu Buhari has staked his life for Nigeria and he is ready to pay the supreme price to put the country on the right track,” Masari said. He explained that Buhari’s journey to the presidency in 2015 was because, “he could not fold his hands when things were going bad for Nigeria.” According to Masari, the seeming slow pace of progress by the Buhari administration since 2015 may not be unconnected with what he described as “the mess created by the 16 years of the immediate past PDP government.” As Masari put it: “Before Buhari came in, in 2015, he had a wholesome blueprint for an overall development of the county but he became overwhelmed by the mess which the PDP left behind. “The best he could do was to begin to clear the mess which was so massive and that is what the President has been doing since almost four years now. It is like someone on a journey, no matter how beautiful the road is, you cannot move forward if it is blocked. “Buhari had to abandon his programme in order to fix this mess and that is why he needs the next four years to consolidate on some of the things he has already started. “We have a leader who is trying to put everything right and not like those who had pretended and are still pretending, like one of them from the South-West who you spoke about in your speech. “I know that person very well, having worked with him and I have heard some of his utterances. This is somebody whose utterances are totally different from the real person.” Kalu had earlier presented Masari with a Buhari campaign plaque and another plaque to the governor, for what he described as “Masari’s peace efforts in keeping Nigeria together.” According to Kalu, “We are here to enlighten you on the need to take the campaign for the re-election of Buhari more serious in his home state. “If two million of you voted for him in 2015, you should make it 2.7 million in 2019. We ask everybody, the grass and the root, the vegetables, to go out and vote for Buhari in 2019. Our support for Buhari will not stop.” Kalu had also on Thursday evening visited the Emir of Katsina, Alhaji Abdulmumini Kabir Usman, in his palace and also presented him with the Buhari re-election plaque.