Taiwo Oluwadare, Ibadan Wife of Governor of Oyo State, Mrs. Florence Ajimobi, has tasked well-meaning Nigerians on need to give to less privileged children as a mark of love and as God’s injunction. The Oyo State First Lady gave the charge, on Sunday, while distributing gift items to 20 orphanage homes in the state to commemorate, in arrears, the celebration of Children’s Day, in Government House, Agodi, Ibadan. She said, “I use this opportunity to appeal to well meaning Nigerians who are able to afford to give to less privileged to give whatever they can give and I know everybody no matter worth can give to less privileged children. “It doesn’t have to be a something huge but like a carton of biscuit as a mark of showing love and I believe as we do so, the good Lord will continue to bless us. “I have been doing this for over 20 years and I have seen the blessings and my labour of love has not gone in vain. If we can bless these children, the good Lord will bless our children wherever they go”, she stated. Earlier, on Saturday, at the Women Intercessory Network (WIN) prayer at Arcade Remembrance Ground, Government House, in Ibadan, Mrs. Ajimobi had counseled  female elected local government chairpersons and Councilors to be humble and render their selfless services in the councils where warning that the feat should not go into their heads. “It has been long that we have been praying for our women to rise up for greater calling. I am happy with the present development. It is not enough for you being addressed as Honourable. You are to prove that with your performance in your areas. God will give you the enablement,” she said. They were all prayed for by the Ministers of God who came to play different roles during the prayer programme which included intercession for the country, Oyo State, choruses and prophetic declarations. Mrs. Ajimobi said that she was grateful that the APC congresses did not witness bloodshed in the state and disclosed that all the women ministers would not relent in their efforts to sustain the existing peace in the state. Women who featured during the programme included Rev. (Mrs) E.Oyetunji, Evangelist Funmi Aragbaye, Pastor Omowumi Popoola, Evangelist Toun Soetan and others with a message delivered by rev. Oyetunji. Rev. Oyetunji observed that there were always horns that placed on children’s ways causing them stagnation, frustration and negative things capable of denying them breakthrough in life but assured that steadfast prayers of parents always destroy such horns. She pointed out that there were always places prepared in the wilderness and horns on the way pointing out that whoever pray faithfully unto God would always overcome all forces of darkness because with God nothing shall be impossible. Admonishing those present to refrain from sinful acts,Oyetunji also advised them to pray for our leaders stressing that we should seek the peace of the country at all times.