Sylvanus Viashima, Jalingo The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD)’s Value Chain Development Programme (VCDP), on Thursday, distributed mini tractors, fertilisers and other farming inputs to farmers in Taraba State to boost farming. Commissioner for Agriculture in the state, Dr. David Ishaya, who distributed the materials at a roll out of input distribution under the Mini Growth Enhancement Scheme (GES) of the Taraba VCDP in  Sunkani, near Jalingo, appealed to benefiting farmers to use the inputs for the purpose intended. Ishaya, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Mr. Jeremiah Danjuma, assured farmers  that the state government would continue to support genuine farmers in the state in the quest to put Taraba State in its rightful place in Agricultural map of the country, and announced the procurement of 1,900 metric tonnes of fertiliser which would soon be distributed to farmers in the state. The state Programme Coordinator (SPC), Mr. Irimiya Musa, in a remark thanked Governor Darius Ishaku  for the prompt payment of counterpart funding for the success of the programme in the state and charged farmers to make judicious use of the inputs for their benefit and to ensure food security. Musa disclosed that the programme had supported 7, 750 farmers with Agro inputs across the five local government areas of coverage in state since inception. He also noted that in all interventions including trainings and input supports, a total of 9,435 farmers had so far benefited from the programme in the state. Musa explained that benefiting farmers were to pay 50 per cent contribution for the Agro inputs and 30 per cent for the Tractors,  while the programme pay a matching grant of 50 percent for the Agro inputs and 70 percent for the tractors. Leader of the monitoring team from IFAD Head office, Abuja, Musa Alhmed, said they were in the state to supervise the distribution of farm inputs and tractors to ensure that all benefiting farmers get their inputs. One of the beneficiaries Ms. Sumaiya Ahmadu, thanked IFAD for its continuous support to rice and Cassava farmers in the state, while noting that the programme had boosted their production capacity through series of trainings on best agronomic practices and inputs support. She pledged, on behalf of the beneficiaries, not to let the programme down but contributing their quota in ensuring food security of the country.