Fred Ezeh It is no news that some people are residing in uncompleted houses and under bridges in some sections of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). What may terrify not a few is that the number is clearly on the increase. A trip to scores of uncompleted houses and under bridges in the FCT revealed how hundreds of young men and women converted them as home. The situation has, justifiably, posed a huge challenge to the security situation in the seat of power. “We are witnessing more attacks while driving under bridges in many parts of Abuja. It has never been as bad as what we have at the moment,” Musa Abdul, a banker told Daily Sun. He added: “When you leave the road you are faced with several young jobless men who are living in uncompleted or makeshift houses in the city. I have several of them near my house in Mabushi.” Abuja is blessed with a good road network. Some of the roads have two to three overhead bridges and subways attached to them. This is meant to ease the movement of the people. Unfortunately, some of the bridges have been converted to “palace” by some individuals. Like Abdul some people cannot fathom why some young Nigerians would chose to convert under bridge as place of abode. It has become a source of concern for security operatives and the entire society. There are several accounts of how these people unleash terror on innocent FCT residents who were hitherto advised to use these bridges for safety. They target more young ladies that could not boldly confront them. The worst experience is when a vehicle breaks down at these areas. They turn the driver to a prey, especially when he or she fails to connect with them emotionally and otherwise. They come down hard on such person.
Ben Okezie, a journalist and security expert shared his recent experience in the hands of the “boys.” His vehicle broke down along the National Stadium way a week ago. He was immediately surrounded and swooped on by the criminals. At the end, he was severely injured and his phones and laptops taken away. He was hospitalised for some days as a result of the life-threatening injuries he sustained. Investigation has confirmed that bridges at National Stadium, Nnamdi Azikiwe Road, Ahmadu Bello Way, Kubwa and Airport expressways, and manyothers are the major hideouts of these people. In their usual modus operandi, they would first dispossess their victims of belongings, and the worst could be done if faced with resistance. They would also vandalise the vehicle. Okezie said he was returning to Garki from one of the communities along Abuja Airport Road, alone in the car, at about 7:30 pm, when his vehicle broke down shortly after the city gate: “I managed to roll the car to the bridge close to the entrance of the stadium so I could think of what next to do. Just as I was trying to make some calls, about four guys came down from the base of the bridge and began to speak Hausa to me. “When they noticed I could not respond, they spoke more of the language. Because I could not respond and there was no help nearby, one of them forced his hand into my pocket and took my wallet. Before I could utter a word, they began to attack me. I was helpless and had to engage the remaining strength in me to escape with injuries they had given me. “No driver or any helper could stop to assist me because it is expressway and all the drivers were all on high speed. I reported to police at the Area 1 Roundabout but they were unwilling to act. My car was vandalised before I could return the next day. It was a horrible experience.” Life under the bridge is an age long practice in major cities in Nigeria due to increase in poverty and hopelessness. But the number of these under bridge occupants has continued to grow significantly in recent times, an indication that more people are becoming poorer. There is no doubt that the cost of living and decent accommodation in Abuja have gone out of the reach of an average resident. Insecurity in the North East and other parts of Nigeria has also forced people down to Abuja in search of greener pastures. Only few of these families could afford decent accommodation and high cost of living. Others go the way of uncompleted buildings, slums and bridge base for shelter. In the absence of a decent job several young people have taken to street hawking and other menial jobs that could, obviously, not afford them the opportunity to live a better life. The society and its people becomes the victim of their anger. George Akpan, a resident, told our correspondent that he has been robbed twice: “First was at a lonely bridge along Kubwa Expressway and the second was at a bridge near Life Camp Roundabout. “That evening I was on my way to see a boss in Gwarimpa and the engine of my car just went off. I became confused, without knowledge of what to do. Suddenly some three young came down from the base of the bridge. They were friendly initially but later became hostile. “The summary of my encounter with them was that they dispossessed me of my bag that contained my two phones worth N130, 000. They also took N40, 000 cash that was with me, my bank debit cards, identity card and my international passport. It was like a drama, not until few minutes later when it was done on me that the whole game was real.” He suggested that police should strengthen their night patrol particularly lonely routes in Abuja so they could guarantee security of lives and property of FCT residents. FCT police spokesman, Anjuguri Manza, however, denied reports that criminal activities of under bridge occupants in Abuja have increased. He was happy that different strategies adopted by FCT police command to tackle the menace was fruitful. He said they recorded tremendous success in the fight against hooliganism through the help of the public and the support FCT administration: “We have strengthened the capacity of our men in uniform and plain clothe to conduct stop and search at every part of Abuja at night, with more attention focused on areas with high crime rate. We have made several arrests and many of the suspects have been convicted in the court and are serving various jail terms. “Our undercover officers have been put under alert to arrest and prosecute several of them to serve as deterrent to others that might tempt to go into crime.” 