Esther Adeleye The teeth are hard, white structures found in the mouth. Usually used for mastication, the teeth of different vertebrate species are sometimes specialised. Each tooth consists of a crown and one or more roots. The crown is the functional part of the tooth that is visible above the gum. The root is the unseen portion that supports and fastens the tooth in the jawbone. Plaque is an accumulation of substances that forms on your teeth, and when this happen every time,
it can lead to tooth decay and gum disease, which could lead to pain and tooth loss. Your teeth care is necessary to avoid compilation of issues. Regular care for your teeth helps your mouth stay healthy and it gives you a beautiful smile. However, you can care for your teeth in the following ways: Brush your teeth: This is one of the simplest ways to clean your teeth and the foremost thing recommended by any dentist. While brushing your teeth with toothbrush, make sure you position your toothbrush in a way that your tooth surface and gum line are in contact with the bristles. Ensure you brush your teeth twice everyday for at least two minutes in other to make sure that your mouth is free from bacteria. Floss between your teeth every day: It helps remove food particles and other harmful substances, which cannot be removed with tooth brush. This can be tiring and stressful to do, but it is necessary to floss at least once a day in other to avoid plaque. Visit a dentist regularly for a check up and cleaning: You should visit a professional dentist once in every six months so that your dental health remains checked. During this visits, you are examined to identify problems and keep you protected from them. Cut down on sugary foods: This is important because when you eat sugary food, the bacteria will break down sugars and create acids leading to acid build up on the teeth. You can be safe eating sugary food just make sure you clean your mouth by brushing or by using mouth wash, in other to avoid residue of bacteria in your mouth. Don’t smoke or chew tobacco: If you avoid tobacco, you are saving your teeth from danger, staying away from tobacco will keep you away from oral cancer. When you smoke or take alcohol, you are endangering your teeth. The best thing is not take all these, in order to have healthy teeth. However, if you drink alcohol, drink in moderation.