The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) suffered more loss yesterday as some of its members in Ekiti West and Ijero local governments defected to join All Progressive Congress (APC). This was just as the APC candidate; Dr. Kayode Fayemi, continued his campaign rallies to sell his manifesto to voters. Fayemi in company of his deputy, Bisi Egbeyemi, and party chiefs, addressed rallies in Aramoko, Erio, Ido-Ile, Okemesi, Ikoro, Ijero, Ijurin, Iloro, among others, where he urged voters to reject the continuity agenda of Governor Ayo Fayose, alleging that it is to perpetuate poverty among the people. Like in previous campaign rallies, some PDP chieftains led their supporters to defect to the APC in virtually all the communities visited. In Aramoko, a stronghold of PDP, at least 30 of its top leaders led hundreds of supporters to defect to APC; while in Ido-Ile, residents said they would vote for Fayemi because of the water project, roads, schools rehabilitation and social security for the elderly people he provided in his first term. Fayemi expressed delight that it was ‘mainly those giving APC headache’ that defected in Aramoko and assured them of equal treatment in their new party. He listed his achievements in agriculture, schools and hospital rehabilitation, social security, appointments, education, roads and electricity, among others, in Aramoko to the applause of supporters. He said that nothing had been added to what he did in the town except that Fayose introduced payment of taxes by school pupils, while workers were left unpaid. He urged voters to ignore the reports of the debts he incurred, saying though he borrowed N25 billion to implement projects that are verifiable, including the completion of projects started by former Governor Segun Oni’s administration. He said he paid back N14.5 billion of the loan before leaving office but alleged that Fayose had so far borrowed N56 billion but did nothing with it except a bridge. He urged the people to reject what he alleged as continuity of suffering, unpaid salaries and lies. In Erio Ekiti, the community presented a copy of the Holy Bible to Fayemi, declaring that the APC candidate represented a soldier of Christ who will always win his battles. They said victory is sure for him. While speaking, Fayemi expressed shock that the road he initiated leading to Erio worship centre was abandoned and promised to complete the project and implement other ones they choose in his pre-budget meetings with the people. He promised to continue his pro-people schemes, including social security, free education and helping students to pay for public examinations and scholarships. The Owa Ooye of Okemesi, Oba Gbadebo Adedeji, praised Fayemi for appointing indigenes, including Adewale Fapohunda, into his government, while Kayode Fasakin was a member of the House of Assembly. The monarch said they were the best to represent the town in government.
He said the town had the best of times while Fayemi was governor and praised him for constructing the abandoned road to the town’s hospital. The monarch assured Fayemi of the support of the community. At Ikoro-Ekiti country home of the third runner-up in APC primary, Kayode Ojo, the former aspirant, who described Egbeyemi as his father’s friend, urged the people to vote for Fayemi, reminding the people that his years as governor was an evergreen experience in the development process of the town. Another party chief from the town, Femi Thomas, described Fayemi as a man of honour who can be trusted with his words while another former aspirant, Dr. Bayo Orire, spoke in the same vein, urging residents to vote for him.