Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has promised to intervene in the crisis between the Association of Luxury Bus Owners of Nigeria (ALBON) and the Lagos State Government. ALBON had alleged that the state’s policies are a threat to its members’ businesses and added that if nothing is done urgently, the policies can cripple the luxury bus business. President and Chairman of Ifesinachi Group of Companies, Prince Emeka Mamah, who led a delegation to Osinbajo on Monday, alleged that the Governor Akinwunmi Ambode-led administration’s policies have led to hostile business climate in the state. Mamah told State House Correspondents that Osinbajo has assured the luxury bus owners that he will intervene in the matter. “We have been assured that the vice president will intervene in matter. We believe he is going to do this for us. We have the confidence in the All Progressives Congress administration and believe the vice president will ensure our problems are resolved. “No time frame was mentioned, but, from the way he spoke, I believe it is going to happen soonest,” he said.
Mamah said the 2017 executive order by the Lagos state government, directing all transporters on the Ikorodu corridor to relocate to Ojota, is crippling their businesses as the new location cannot accommodate 10 percent of their businesses. He also said the new location lacks access to spare parts and workshops, roads, adding that the cost implication of a slot at the bus terminal is too high. “Our request is first, that you appeal to Lagos state government, under the leadership of Governor Ambode, to reconsider the decision that our members operating in their various offices, which are private motor parks, along Ikorodu road, Jibowu, Lagos state, should close their operations and move to Ojota Bus Terminal. “It is indisputable, even by the management of Ojota bus terminal, that the space provided cannot accommodate 10 percent of our members, as some members, such as Young Shall Grow Motors (Nig.) Ltd., G. U. Okeke & Sons Motors (Nig.) Ltd., Chisco Transport (Nig.) Ltd., Peace Mass Transit (Nig.) Ltd., God is Good Motors (Nig.) Ltd., and E. Ekeson & Bros Motors Ltd., to mention but a few, operate not less than 1,000, 600, 500, 400 and 300 mini buses.”