Tony John, Port Harcourt Former acting National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Sen. Ahmed Makarfi, has declared that Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State is the most targeted politician in the country. Sen. Makarfi noted that everything had been done to distract Governor Wike, but he has remained focused, delivering key projects across the state. He also said that Nigerians, who love democracy, would always stand with Governor Wike for his investments in the sustenance of democracy. The PDP presidential aspirant spoke, on Wednesday, before commissioning  Nyemoni Grammar School, Abonnema, in  Akuku-Toru Local Government Area of the State. According to Makarfi, “The most targeted politician in Nigeria today is Governor Wike. Everything is being done to distract you; but, you must keep on working”, Senator Makarfi said. He said Governor Wike has raised the bar in the delivery of projects and programmes, noting  that others would need a rocket to reach Governor Wike’s level . The former Kaduna State governor also stated that it would be in the  interest of Rivers people to re-elect Governor Wike, so that he could stabilise the development process  of the state. He said: “Nigerians, who love democracy are with Governor Wike.  If not for Governor Wike’s enormous contributions, opposition would have died. That would  have been the end of democracy in Nigeria. “It is suicidal for the people of Rivers State to let Governor Wike go.  It is in the interest of the state that Governor Wike is re-elected to stabilize the development process of Rivers State”. Speaking at the commissioning ceremony,  Governor Wike said his brand of politics was targeted at improving the living condition of the people. In the words of Governor Wike, “I came into politics for the execution of projects. To improve the quality of lives of the people and make them happy. We are displaying our projects for the world to see”, he said. He said that the revival and total re-equipping of the school was in line with his promise to the Abonnema people during the electioneering campaign. “Communities that support Government will get more projects. Abonnema is one of the first towns where the people came out to support us wholeheartedly”, he said. He announced the takeover of the school from the mission and directed the Rivers State Senior Secondary School Board to commence the process for the posting of principal and teachers to the school. The governor added that the State Government will work towards establishing one faculty of one of the state-owned universities in the area. On the management of the new school, Governor Wike noted that local contractors would be engaged to maintain facilities in  the institution. The State Education Commissioner, Dr Tamunosisi Gogo-Jaja, said that Governor Wike revived the school which was closed down by the Chibuike Amaechi-led administration for eight years.  He said two new hostels were constructed, while laboratories and libraries were built and equipped. Amayanabo of Abonnema,   King Disrael Gbobo Bob-Manuel,  commended Governor Wike for his developmental strides in the area. Chairman of Akuku-Toru Local Government Area, Mr. Rowland Sekibo, announced the endorsement of Governor Wike for a second term, saying that Akuku-Toru people will work hard to secure  the governor’s re-election. The students of Nyemoni Grammar School, Abonnema, rendered an appreciation song to the Rivers State governor, while old students presented a goodwill message. 