Molly Kilete, Abuja The Federal Government yesterday said it would do everything possible to ensure that the Islamic States In Syria (ISIS), did not convert any part of Nigeria to a training ground to breed terrorists. Government also said it was aware of the report that the ISIS were sneaking in jihadists from Syria to be trainned as terrorists for possible attacks on Britain. It, however, assured Nigerians that it was doing everything possible to curb what it described as “illegal movement” by the terrorist group. Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Defense, Mrs. Nuratu Batagarawa, made this known at a media briefing to announce the seventh meeting of ministers of defence of the Sahel Saharan States (CEN-SAD), in Abuja. She said the movement of ISIS into Nigeria would dominate the meeting, adding that government took a holistic decision to deal divisively with the issue and prevent the illegal movement from gaining access into the country: “We all heard about the recruitment of ISIS. Yes, it is on the table and will be the top agenda. It will be discussed appropriately with a view to finding a holistic solution to curbing these movements because obviously such movements are illegal, and government has taken cognizance of this.
“The organization itself is aware of this and is already taking a concerted effort with a view towards finding a lasting solution to containing this illegal movement and illegal associations.”
She listed CEN-SAD objectives to include promoting cooperation among member states in the area of defence and security, establishment of a sub-regional economic union and facilitate the development of transportation. She said the conference, with “Consolidating the achievements of fight against terrorism through solidarity development actions”, as its theme, would focus purely on defence and security issues.
Batagarawa called on member countries to emulate the Operation Safe Corridor Programme of Nigeria aimed at addressing the sufferings of the people of the North East. She said, “it is supposed to de-radicalize, rehabilitate and reintegrate surrendered insurgents. “There is also the counter-terrorism center at the office of the National Security Adviser (NSA), to tackle the root causes of radicalization and proffer appropriate solutions. The center also helps in countering radical ideologies of fundamentalist groups in Nigeria.” Meanwhile, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), said it beefed up security at the major airports in the country following a report that insurgents were sneaking in from Syria.
Henrietta Yakubu, general manager, corporate affairs, said in Lagos, yesterday, that the move was aimed at forestalling anything untoward from occurring at the airports. He said special attention was being given to the Lagos, Abuja, Kano, Enugu and Port Harcourt airports, which serviced international passengers and were gateways into the country via air.
According to her, FAAN Aviation Security (AVSEC) was working with other sister security agencies to maintain surveillance on the perimeter fence, the cargo area, the runway and other restricted areas.
She said: “We have sent alert to all our aviation security at the airports to ensure that they improved on security, especially screening of passengers to make sure unauthorised persons don’t gain access into our terminals. “The airside patrol is being done through the military joint force and AVSEC. They do it round the clock. There are vehicles that are parked on the airside and they escort arriving and departing passengers.’’ Yakubu said FAAN deployed modern equipment to screen passengers and baggage before entering “Our closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras in the terminals and the airside are all functional,” she said.
“The anti-bomb squad are deployed behind the screening machines at the terminal alongside the AVSEC and the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). “They carry out further checks on any baggage that they suspect.” Yakubu disclosed that the periodic simulation exercises to sensitise travellers and other airport users on how to manage emergency situations at the airports would soon be conducted following the fresh terrorism threat.