•Izunazo out •Imo, Delta delegates fight again Ndubuisi Orji and Fred Itua, Abuja More than 24 hours after it commenced its national convention,  the All Progressives Congress (APC), yesterday, unveiled  new members of its National Working Committee (NWC) and National Executive Committee (NEC). Oath of office was also administered on new NWC members by the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami, while NEC members are expected to take oath of office on a yet to be announced date. While former governor of Edo State, Adams Oshiomhole emerged on Saturday unopposed, alongside 25  NWC and NEC members, others emerged yesterday. Apart from Oshiomhole, those returned unopposed included former Ekiti State governor, Niyi Adebayo as Deputy National Chairman (South); Mai Mala Buni as National Secretary;  Babatunde Ogala,  National Legal Adviser; Yekini Nabena, Deputy National Publicity Secretary and Jock Alamba, Deputy National Welfare Secretary. In a keen contest, Bolaji Abdullahi,  George Moghalu and Sunday Jacob Chukuma retained their positions in the NWC as national publicity secretary, national auditor and deputy national financial secretary. However,  Senator Osita Izunazo lost his bid to return as national organising secretary, as he was defeated by Emma Ibediro, preferred choice of the Imo State Governor, Owelle Rochas Okorocha. While  Izunazo garnered 1459  votes, his rival polled over 1700 votes. Others elected included Adamu Fanda, national treasurer; Ado Oguta, deputy legal adviser; Hillary Ekpe, national vice chairman, South-south; Emmanuel Omachukwu, national vice chairman, South-east;  Abubakar Shiuab, national youth leader, Hajia Salamatu Umar, national woman leader and Afeez Bolaji, deputy national youth leader
Declaring the results of the convention,  Chairman of the Convention Planning Committee and governor of Jigawa State,  Badaru Abubakar said a total of 6,800 delegates participated in the exercise.  He said despite the skirmishes,  the convention went well. Meanwhile,  fresh fisticuffs broke out early yesterday morning at the Delta stand while voting was still in full force. Chairs, tables and sticks flew in different directions as arguments broke out at the stand.
Daily Sun observed a man who was seriously beaten and wounded being dragged out of the arena by security operatives. Delegates from Delta and Imo had earlier clashed on Saturday  while President Muhammadu Buhari was delivering his address. Reason for the fresh crisis could not readily be ascertained, but it was gathered that it may not be unconnected with the tightly contested seat of the national organising secretary in which incumbent Izunaso and Governor Okorocha had vested interest. Following the crisis, Imo State delegates who were hitherto detailed to vote, were later stopped. APC chieftains from the state could not arrive at a compromise on the delegates list to use. At a point they besieged the podium, with Okorocha supporters chanting, “all we are saying, give us the results.” They were later dispersed from the podium by security operatives.