 Romanus Ugwu, Abuja Former governor of Lagos state and the national leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, on Tuesday, led a high-powered delegation comprising former governor of Osun State, Bisi Akande, some serving governors to declare support for Comrade Adams Oshiomohle as the next national chairman of the party. Speaking when they visited Oshiomohle’s campaign office, in Abuja, Tinubu said, “My presence here symbolises solidarity and unity of purpose to continue to build a progressive party that will carry Nigeria on in a progressive manner and encourage good governance with courage and commitment. “There is no doubt that I have endorsed his candidacy (Oshiomhole). I have worked with him. Why should I have any doubt? “This thing is a game and there is the fact that you either win or lose. Have you seen a Democrat who is ready to lose? Just accept the fact that it is about winning.” “Whose office am I now? I am in Oshiomhole’s office. First of all, let us solve that problem first. For now, I am for Adams Oshiomhole. “We are reconciling. Our being here is part of reconciliation. We are reconciling. What is politics? It is about conflict and conflict resolution. Anybody can get the brand of a bank anywhere. It, however, depends on whether your card will work in the ATM,” he said. Also speaking on behalf of the governors who came earlier, Kebbi State Governor, Atiku Bagudu, declared that nearly all the serving APC governors have endorsed Oshiomohle as the next National Chairman. Asked how many governors had bought into Ośhiomhole’s candidacy, Givernor Bagudu said: “All of us. Our party is looking forward to chairmanship Adams Oshiomole. “He has been expreineced in various aspects of national life and we are all confident that party structure that is necessary for the continuous evolution and maintenance of democracy and his collective experience in the recent past as executive governor of Edo state, one of the most successful leaders of trade union, and a democratic activist all his life. “These qualities will be brought to bear in achieving the ideas of the APC. So we believe he will be a leader, he will be the embodiment of the spirit of the party and the experience will help,” he noted. Other governors who came to show solidarity to Oshiomhole’s candidacy included; Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, Kano State, Umar Ganduje, Kogi State, Yahaya Bello, Ogun State, Ibikunle Amosun and Nasarawa State, Tanko Al-Makura. Meanwhile, the former Edo governor has attributed his success as former National President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) to his relationship with human rights advocate and legal practitioner, late Gani Fawehinmi. He said this at a dinner organised by friends of M.K.O Abiola and Chief Gani Fawahinmi fir their posthumous honour by President Muhammadu Buhari. ”The Government then oppressed us and was determined to jail us because of our stance against anti people’s policies. “But Gani was always there for me and the NLC. We had always consulted him before taking any decision on union matters. “Gani is not here now, but his spirit is here with us, when people say Judges are bad, there are lots of good Judges, ” Oshiomhole said.