Paul Orude, Bauchi Two people were killed while property worth millions of Naira were destroyed following  windstorm and downpour that affected several communities in Bauchi metropolis, on Saturday. It was learnt that the windstorm and downpour, which started around 5:00p.m. and lasted for two hours, killed the two persons in Tirwum area of Bauchi metropolis. Our correspondent learnt that one of the victims was hit by a tree while the other died when a building collapsed on him. Our correspondent, who went round the metropolis, reports that the fence of the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa Stadium and transmission facilities  of Daar Communications  were destroyed. Other areas affected are Federal Low Cost Housing Estate, Bauchi , Yelwa Kagadama, Yakubu Wanka , Kobi , Fadamada among others. When contacted, the Permanent Secretary of the Bauchi State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA),Shehu Ningi,said they were yet to ascertain the level of destruction. Governor Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar, on Sunday, sympathised with the people of the state, especially those who lost their relatives, homes and properties as a result of windstorm in the state. Governor Abubakar, who went round some affected areas,  called on communities to regard the incident as an act of God. He said the aim of his visit was to see for himself the level of destruction as a result of the disaster. Abubakar assured that his administration would do its best  to assist those affected by incident. The areas visited by the governor included Miri, BATV, and Abubakar Tatari Ali Polytechnic,  Kobi , Railway road, Tirwun and Bakin Kura in  Bauchi Metropolis. The governor was in company with the Emir of Bauchi, Alhaji Rilwanu Suleiman Adamu, Commissioners and top government officials. Speaking with newsmen, the state communication coordinator of the Nigerian Red Cross Society, Hajia Asma’u Tijjani Umar, said the level of devastation was alarming. Hajia Asma’u Umar, said the society had swung into action to give first aid to victims. She called on affected communities to give information to relevant organisations to enable them compile the losses incurred in the disaster.       ￼