Paul Orude, Bauchi A governorship aspirant in Bauchi State on the  platform of the New Nigerian People’s Party (NNPP), Dr. Samaila Dahuwa, has lamented the state of education in the  state, saying  it was the worst in the entire North East region. Dahuwa made this known, in Bauchi, at a press conference held at the NUJ Secretariat, Bauchi, on Wednesday. He said that if he becomes governor of the state, his major priority will be be to address the education sector. “You can imagine when I went to a public school in Azare, I found over 200 pupils learning in a classroom without enough seats. This so pathetic. With this kind of situation, we don’t need any roadmap to address these problem because we will come in with a new approach,” he said.  On the health sector, Dahuwa, who is from Katagum Local Government Area, lamented inadequate health facilities and personnel in the state. He assured that when elected, health, agriculture and youth unemployment would be given priority. Dahuwa, a medical doctor and former staff of Nigeria Intelligence Agency (NIA) said, “We have only one Specialist hospital that was recently converted to Teaching hospital by the previous Administartion. “This hospital was built in the 50’s and it is the only functional hospital we have despite that the population of Bauchi has increased 30 times and we still maintain one hospital. “It’s unfortunate that all our primary schools in Bauchi state was built in the 60’s and the facility are substandard so all we need to address these problem is commitment and purposeful leadership. “We will turn around the fortune of our youth by creating employment opportunities. through agriculture and utilisation of solid minerals. “The indices in the area of infant and maternal health also shows that Bauchi is the second poorest State in the Nation. “So, we cannot continue to do the same thing and expect to get a different result, when we come in, we will do things differently and our goal is to create wealth that everybody will be happy with,” he stated