Bamigbola Gbolagunte, Akure The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has raised the alarm over attack against some of its members in Ekiti State ahead of the July 14 governorship election in the state. The party observed that many of its members including the Chief of Staff to Governor Ayodele Fayose, Mr. Dipo Anisulowo, have allegedly suffered series of attacks in the hands of thugs allegedly sponsored by the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. The party, in a statement issued by its South West zonal publicity secretary, Mr. Ayo Fadaka, said the desperation shown by the APC in the forthcoming election in Ekiti State was serious. Fadaka’s words, “We are already counting down to the conduct of the Ekiti State gubernatorial election and we feel duty bound to let Nigerians know that we are alarmed at the continuing violence the APC is perpetrating in the state. “He said we find it quite unwholesome that blood has been spilled in the state and the notch have even been moved higher to arson. “In this respect, we note that the family house of Governor AyodeleFayose’s Chief of Staff, Dipo Anisulowo was completely razed by operatives of the APC, this callous action was indeed targeted to insult the entire illustrious family of this gentleman. “We also note sadly that at least two people died as a result of the reckless driving of the convoy of APC leaders during their so called “mega rally”, all these developments are clear pointers to the uncivilised and immature approach of these people to politicking,” he added. He stated further that, “While we duly acknowledge that as politicians, we all must take actions to prosecute our ambitions and goals, it is in absolute bad taste to display outright disrespect for human lives and properties.” According to him “it is our belief in PDP that nobody’s ambition is worth the life and property of another.” He, therefore, warned the APC against further attack  on PDP members, saying “we demand that the APC must play by the rule and comport itself within the fringes of decency and law.