• I owe nobody apology on projects delivery, says gov Tony John, Port Harcourt Rivers State Governor, Nyesom  Wike, has said he owes no apology to those complaining about the numerous projects being commissioned in the State by his administration. Wike said this yesterday, while commissioning 15 internal roads constructed by his administration in Okochiri Kingdom in Okrika Local Government Area, as part of activities marking his third year in office. The governor, who said he will continue to provide basic infrastructure for Rivers people, noted that the commissioning of the internal roads would bring development in the area. “This is pure development to people of Okochiri. Now, the people will have access to their communities and the value of land will appreciate. “We are executing  projects and that is why we are commissioning projects. We want good things for our people. Therefore, we will continue to develop our communities,” the governor said.
He thanked the people of Okochiri for the cooperation given the contractor to finish the project in record time. Speaking further, Wike urged the people of Okochiri not to be worried by threats of the opposition on 2019 general election. “We are focused on working for the people of Rivers State. Our objective is to deliver. We are masters of this game. This is our job. When the time for politics comes, we will know the professionals.” In his remark, former minister of Transport, Dr. Abiye Sekibo, lauded Wike for constructing the Okochiri internal roads, which Okrika son and a former governor (Ada George) was unable to do.
“The support of Okrika people for Governor Wike has nothing to do with party politics.  It is  because he has wiped away the tears of our people. “Wike must accept our call on him to contest the 2019 general election. We will contribute to buy the governorship form for him. Our people will deliver the votes. “I can now look my people in the face and say my relationship with government brought meaningful projects. For us, Okrika people, we have no choice but to stand with Wike in 2019,” he said. Commissioner for Works, Dumnamene Dekor, who noted the deplorable state of the roads before the intervention of the governor, said the 15 internal roads, which spanned 11.5 kilometres, would enhance the livelihood of the people of the area. Earlier, Chairman of Okrika Local Government Area, Iwoloma Philemon, thanked the governor for the various development projects sited in the local government and urged him to heed the clarion call of the people to contest in 2019, to consolidated his developmental strides.