Rose Ejembi, Makurdi The three major Socio cultural groups in Benue, Mzough U Tiv (MUT), Idoma National Forum (INF) and Omi Ny’Igede rejected plans by the Federal Government to use public funds to establish ranches for a private business of cattle rearing. In a statement, in Makurdi, on Thursday, President General of MUT, Engr. Edward Ujege on behalf of the other ethnic leaders stated that the attempt by the Federal Government to build ranches for herders in Benue State was a grand plan to grab Benue land and give it to herdsmen in the name of ranches. “Our attention has been brought to a publication in several national dailies concerning the establishment of pilot cattle ranches in 10 states of the country including Benue. “The proposed project which has a 10 year plan is estimated to gulp N179 billion and N70 billion is to be sourced by the Federal Government to commence the project. “While we appreciate the position of the Federal Government to accept ranching as the global best method of animal’s husbandry, which has been our position in Benue State, we reject the idea by the  federal government to use public funds to construct ranches for a private business of cattle rearing. While noting that cattle rearing like crop farming, remains a private business the world over and Nigeria in particular, Ujege stated that it would not be right to use public funds to sponsor such private business. “We wish to state that cattle rearing remains a private business in the world and Nigeria in particular just like crop farming and should be treated as such. “There is a law on Open Grazing Prohibition and Ranches Establishment enacted by the Benue State government and the law makes explicit provisions for those interested in the business of rearing cattle to come forward, acquire land and build ranches. The groups reaffirmed their support for the Benue Grazing law and all its provisions stressing that the herders must be enlightened to abide by the terms and conditions of the land acquisition of their host communities for them to have a sense of belonging. “As we reaffirm our support and stance for this law and all its provisions, even as they restate their earlier call on the Federal Government to arrest and prosecute the leadership of Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore for their complicity in the Benue killings. “We wish to also reiterate our earlier call on the Federal Government to arrest and prosecute the leadership of Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore for their complicity in the Benue killings. “If these people are not arrested and interrogated for threatening to invade our communities and carrying out their threats, we will continue to treat both the Federal Government and our killers as one. “The forum of Mdzough U Tiv (MUT), Idoma National Forum and Omi Ny’Igede rejects the Federal Government’s continued push to actualize grazing routes and cattle colonies which Nigerians have vehemently rejected, Ujege said. 