Close to 200 people were allegedly killed in a horrific murder committed by suspected Fulani herdsmen in Barkin Ladi Local Government Area of Plateau State. Nigerians have taken to social media to express their anguish and disenchantment at the poor state of security in Nigeria. Nigerian celebrities were not left out of the agony, as some of them have joined millions of Nigerians to cry out and lament at the injustice Nigerians are suffer daily. See what some of Nigerians shared via Twitter
@bankyw ‘First it was Daniel the 3rd (RIP), now reading another heartbreaking massacre in Plateau state. So much death. I’m sad in my soul. Hard finding the right words to even pray. God help us. @obyezeks A LEADER WILL NOT allow KILLINGS of his PEOPLE WITHOUT CONSEQUENCES. It is ABNORMALITY for a people to NOT VALUE the Lives of their fellow human beings. THESE KILLINGS MUST STOP, .@NGRPresident @MBuhari !!! Give JUSTICE to the nearly 200 DEAD in Plateau. DO IT NOW!!! @EiENigeria Over 5000 policemen were deployed to eagle square to protect less than 9000 politicians, while Nigerians who have been crying for safety were left unprotected.
When will we learn to place priorities right? @MBuhari #OneDeathTooMany #PlateauMassacre #PlateauLivesMatter pic.twitter.com/4J9qQWJ9jE @Audu Such a tough week- hundreds of women, men and children slaughtered ( not killed ) in Plateau, another dozen in Kaduna , Adamawa too wasn’t spared. And someone says that we are not at war… war cant be much worse than this! #SecureOurCountry @ogundamisi The senseless killings in Plateau state sadly jolts us back to reality from the temporary feeling of a united country after @NGSuperEagles gave us something to celebrate. A sad reality that the government has failed, is failing to nip the killings in Adamawa Benue etc in the bud. @DrJoeAbah My heart goes out to the families of those killed in Plateau State today. It is totally unacceptable that citizens can be killed at will, over and over again, with no protection from their government. @deejayneptune My heart goes out to families of those killed in Plateau State. Let us say a prayer to the people in Jos. I’m heartbroken, my people pls get your PVCs, our leaders have failed US smh @renoomokri Anyone in Plateau, Benue or Taraba who votes for President Buhari in 2019 should not cry crocodile tears when herdsmen continue to steal, kill and destroy the lives of Nigerians in those states. By your vote, you are saying you endorse the killings of your brothers and sisters.