Nigeria lost its iconic reggae musician, great lyricist, a revolutionary and Rub-a-Dub master in the death of Ras Kimono Onwubuya on June 10. The musician died in a Lagos hospital some days after marking his 60th birthday. There is no doubt that the deceased was one of the nation’s legendary reggae musicians. In fact, he was one of those musicians that revolutionalised reggae music in the country. He appropriated and rightly deployed reggae music as a tool to fight social injustice as well as highlight the failings of government and its institutions. His insightful lyrics brought hope and peace to troubled minds. He used his music to campaign vigorously for a better Nigerian society. The deceased was a talented great Nigerian and African musician. He created a reggae genre that resonated with the masses. Born on May 9, 1958 in Onicha Olona in Aniocha North Local Government Area of Delta State, Kimono started his musical career at Gbenoba Secondary School, Agbor, Delta State, and later became a member of the Jastix Reggae Ital with Majek Fashek, and others. Kimono came into national limelight with his debut album, Under Pressure, in 1989, a mixture of African and Jamaican rhythms. The highly successful album, Under Pressure, which lampooned corruption and bad government in Nigeria, contained the popular evergreen track, “Rhumba Style” among others. His second album, What’s Gwan, released in 1990, which was also successful, decried the excruciating economic conditions of that period. In 1992, Kimono released Run Fi Cover. His other albums were Oracle of Jah and Still I Arise. His 2017 songs “Senseless Killings” and “Blessed Africa” did not disappoint. He reigned in the 80s and 90s when reggae music was in vogue. He was, indeed, one of the exponents of that brand of music and he was unarguably ahead of his contemporaries. His relocation to the United States of America apparently retarded his music as young hip-hop musicians took over and dominated the musical scene. His attempt to stage a comeback was not quite successful as reggae music is no longer in vogue in our shores. Since his demise, prominent Nigerians have extolled his sterling qualities. To the former governor of Delta State, Chief James Ibori, “Kimono was a revolutionary, who applied his immense musical talent and impressive energy to make not just Nigeria but the entire world a better place.” In his tribute, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State observed that Kimono promoted good governance, good entertainment and healthy community relations through his reggae music.
In the same vein, Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki noted that “Ras Kimono campaigned vigorously for a better Nigeria through his unique music genre, rooted in reggae, which earned him the sobriquet, the Rub-a-Dub master.” Obaseki also said that “His philosophical bent which dominated the theme of his songs, will continue to reverberate in the minds of millions of his fans across the world.” Similarly, the Chairman of the Copyright Society of Nigeria (COSON), Chief Tony Okoroji, said that “Kimono was not just a great musician but a truly fantastic person. He had no angst against anyone and stood for truth and justice at all times. I have not just lost a colleague but a valued friend.”
With his demise, we have lost one of the frontline and committed reggae musicians. We would continue to remember and cherish his energetic stage presence in his evergreen songs, especially the “Rhumba Style”, “Natty Get Jail”, “Kimono Dem Want” and “Senseless Killings”. No doubt, Ras Kimono was a consummate reggae musician, who dreamt and lived reggae music all his life. We mourn him and commiserate with his family, fans, Delta State government and Nigerians on the great loss. We urge the government to immortalise the great Nigerian reggae musician and change agent. May God grant his soul eternal repose.