Ighomuaye Lucky, Benin The leadership of the National Association of Edo State Students have commended the victory of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole as the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Recall that on Saturday, June 23, 2018, Oshiomhole was announced and sworn in as the new National Chairman of the APC having been unanimously affirmed as the sole candidate in the just concluded National Convention of the ruling‎ party. Oshiomhole, who succeeded Chief John Odigie-Oyegun after his tenure expired, was described by the student group as ‘a man who the cap fits’ and one that would  lead his party to victory in the forthcoming presidential election. A representative of the Association, Comrade Meisabi Tasiu, said the former labour leader represents the true capacity that can drive the party to achieving success in the forthcoming general election. He stressed that Oshiomhole’s past stewardship in Edo  State had set a‎ better template in the political corridor that had resulted to the emancipation of its citizenry. He said, “When he (Oshiomhole) served as the NLC president, he found and assumed a place in the hearts of Nigerian workers and students/youth. His stewardship‎ thereafter opened the doors in Edo State that resulted in political emancipation. “He is committed to national interest through his ideological focus and‎ he is not afraid of vagaries of adventures or despite all he has‎ achieved, he does not believe in blowing his own trumpet or raising dust about his achievements”, Tasiu stated. Tasiu further noted that with Oshiomhole’s profound intellectual extensiveness and dedication to effective service delivery, he would be able to provide‎ veritable support for the president Muhammadu Buhari vision, socio-economic and political ideologies. He, however, urged all party members to rally round Oshiomhole to enable him deliver in his‎ promise to the party and the nation, adding that, it would be a‎ productive combination for the anti-corruption crusade, good governance,‎ security and zoning structure. 