Solape Lawal-Solarin Ahead of the group D opener in Essentuki, between the Super Eagles and Croatia, former internationals, one-time Eagles coach and Nigerians alike have been expressing their opinions as Gerhot Rohr and his men eye a positive start to their World Cup campaign. Chief Adegboye Onigbinde, Ex-Eagles coach “I only have this to say:Patriotism. Right now I’m not bothered about what Croatia has, their players, none of it is my business. I will root for Nigeria because I am a Nigerian and I want the Eagles to soar. “Today’s game is going to be tough but exciting and I expect the Nigerian spirit to come out in the boys when they file out. “I have utmost belief in this team to perform, and today will provide us a glimpse of what to expect from them. This is the World Cup, you can’t hide. They must play and bring up their A-game and no better way to do it than against Croatia.” • Emmanuel Amuneke, Ex-Eagles winger The Ex-Eagles winger believes the Eagles must use the clash against the Croats to lay down a gauntlet. He emphasized on the need for the players to play collectively as a team in order to have a successful world cup opening today. “I am optimistic towards today’s clash because I believe we have what it takes too to hurt Croatia.
“We have done excellently well by being among the five representatives from the continent but, we need to show, we’ve grown and raise our game. “Today’s game is an opportunity to make right or the errors that cost us defeats in our last two friendlies. The team has balance, the attack is impressive but, overall, I would insist on team work; collectivity.” • Mutiu Adepoju, former Eagles striker “I look forward to the Croatia game with great expectation and optimism. I don’t think we need to fret now, the d-day is here, is now left for the team to perform and I firmly believe in them. “Though we might have our worries concerning the defense but, the coaching crew would have learnt from the two defeats to England and Czech republic thereby preventing another repeat.
“The Eagles have what it takes to beat Croatia. We need to focus on our strength in attack and overall play as a team. So, I’m expecting a great game today.” • Ifeanyi Ejike, Port operations manager, from Isolo “I have respect not fear for Croatia. Really, looking at their players, stars that are well known I’m forced to harbor a little bit of respect fro them but, I know football is not played by team profile rather, is by passion, hunger and determination on the pitch. “For me, the Eagles can do it. They have to because this is our first match hence, is important we start well and strong so that our chances of coming out of the group will be brighter. “Croatia is a good team no doubt however, we are not bad either. I know our opponents will also be worried about our team. They won’t be fooled by those losses in the last two friendlies…instead, they would be ready for us and I expect same response from our boys”. • Biodun Okunola, Civil servant, from Ishashi “I am keeping my fingers crossed. It is going to be a tough one, full of intensity and grit. Being the opener the Croats know what is at stake like the Eagles do too hence, would be given it their all for the three points. But, we have a team that can raise their game. Our woes in the friendlies is not on my mind. To me, is just a friendly, but this, is a world cup game. A lot is at stake and I believe the Eagles won’t disappoint.” • Hassan Ogbewi, Unilag Student, from Ijaiye-Ojokoro “I am excited and looking forward to a wonderful outing against Croatia. I pray we win because is important we start strongly in this encounter failure to do so, could hurt our chances of coming out of the group. “The first game against Croatia is important after that we can now look towards Iceland clash. I just want us to tidy up very well before we meet Argentina, that is my take.”