NAN Football stakeholders and fans in Ebonyi, have commended Gov. David Umahi, for providing Liquid Camera Display (LCD) screens at strategic locations in Abakaliki for the viewership of world cup matches. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the giant LCD screens mounted at the Udensi, Presco and Akanu Ibiam junctions of the Abakaliki-Enugu express road, amongst others have been relaying world Cup matches. The fans interviewed by NAN on Tuesday in Abakaliki, remarked that LCD screens have saved them the stress of rushing to their homes, to watch the matches or paying at viewing centres. Charles Akpuenika, the state Commissioner for Sports and Youth Development, commended the governor for the gesture, noting that he realised the passion the citizens attached to the World Cup. “It is one of the governor’s uncommon feats and the atmosphere of glowing street lights during matches, makes the people feel they are in Dubai or other developed cities of the world. “I toured the city when Nigeria played Croatia last Saturday, and crowd scene watching from the big screens, were reminiscent of what obtains across major cities of the world. Emmanuel Uzor, Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to the governor, noted that the gesture was a proof of his principal’s love and passion for sports, especially football. “The governor played football in his heydays and demonstrated his commitment towards sports development, by refurbishing the Pa Ngele Oruta stadium Abakaliki, and sponsorship of several soccer competitions, among other feats. “Umahi as an acclaimed nationalist, realises the role football plays in unifying the nation which made him provide the screens for the citizens’ viewership. In the same vein, Dr Chidi Ijeh, a Medical Doctor, noted that since the governor has realised the benefits of watching the matches, he decided to do the needful. `The economic realities of the times are affecting the people, and the world cup matches provide an avenue for the people to calm their nerves and forget their worries. “I was amazed to see travelers along the Enugu Abakaliki express road, park their vehicles to watch the Nigerian match against Croatia as this is unprecedented in this clime,”he said. Chief Julius Ajomiwe, a Timber Merchant noted that the LCD viewership saved him the stress of rushing to his house after the day’s business activities to watch the matches. “The timber market is situated at the outskirts of Abakaliki and by the time I close from business and reach my home, the particular match I want to watch must have finished. “Presently, I stop at Akanu Ibiam junction, find a nearby bar and watch the matches with relish and peace of mind,”he said. Mrs Obiageri Nweke, a Food Vendor told NAN that she had profited immensely from the brisk business, attending to fans during the matches at the big screen near her shop. “My daily sales have increased, especially in the evenings because most people relax at my shop and watch the matches from the screen mounted at the Presco junction of the Abakaliki-Enugu express road,” she said.