Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa As parts of efforts aimed at equipping teachers and students to explore opportunities in Nigeria’s evolving technology eco-system, the Bayelsa State Government, in partnership with Microsoft and IGNITE, has started the training of 150 teachers and 2000 students on digital literacy. The one week information and communication technology training, under the supervision of Bayelsa State’s Ministry of Education and Information and Orientation, taking place at the St. Judes Girl Secondary School, is expected to commence with the teachers training thereafter the students. Launching the Bayelsa State Computer Science Week, the Governor Seriake Dickson, noted that computer education was the integral part of every education, adding that a foundation in computer science is what would make the state lead others in education. Said he, “The essence of education is to produce a well rounded child, noting that because technology is not new in today’s world, computer science has come to stay. Represented by Secretary to State Government, Barr. Kemela Okara, the governor said the state would definitely be at the forefront of everything happening in the country today if we embrace what we are kicking off today. “A foundation in computer science is what will put Bayelsa state at the fore front of everything happening in the country today. I want to commend Microsoft, IGNITE for the great feat, and we are open to many other partnership on computer and digital entrepreneur” In his brief, Commissioner of Education, Hon. Jonathan Obuibite, described the partnership as heroic and historic, adding that Bayelsa State is the third state to partner Microsoft on training its teachers. Obuibite noted that the training is to benefit both teachers and student of the various schools in the state, added that “as a government we need to think outside the box because education is successful when everyone is involved.” Our society will be properly educated with this mark, we can all remember that in 2012, the governor declared a state of emergency in education and this is one of the many benefit. The chief executive officer IGNITE, Chichi Okafor, commended the state government for the intervention, promising that the beneficiaries will never regret the knowledge that will be impacted on them after the training. Representative of Microsoft, Mr. Ade Olowojoba, noted that the partnership is a landmark initiative, adding that the company believes everyone should have access to computer education.