I went to the office from Jasmine’s House in a pensive mood. How do I avoid getting involved in all these melodrama and why would Rick’s Grandmother involve me in all of these nonsense, I wondered angrily. I had completely forgotten that Dennis had tried to see me a few days ago and I had taken a rain check, obviously the day of reckoning was here. “Tobs, I will like to see you this evening and I am not taking no for an answer,” Dennis said in determination as he strolled into my office, his hard look and stance suggesting someone who wasn’t going to take no for an answer. I looked at him wearily resigning myself to the inevitable. “Can I at least attend to this writ of summons? You know how Court processes are and the Client is breathing down my neck,” I said petulantly. “I will see you at 8.00pm!” He said in a self-aggrandizing way. Why do I always fall for arrogant men? I grumbled silently when Dennis left. I know I don’t like whimsical men who are constantly waiting to be told what to do and how to go about it, men who lack initiatives. Sure no man is the custodian of knowledge but before I start giving suggestions in business and ideas; the man should have a sense of direction and know what he wants. The day went quickly enough with some hiccups here and there but all manageable situations. I had to put off going for the weekend with Jasmine because Debbie my Secretary reminded me of Domestic Violence Anonymous (DVA) taking place by 10.00am on Monday the 25th at Golden Tulip Hotel in Festac Town. It had almost skipped my mind and my Radio program on Unilag 103.1fm on Saturdays by 8.00pm will also hold. Seriously I had a lot to prepare for. This outing is certainly not on my Agenda. “Yes,” I snarled aggressively into the mouthpiece as I snatched up the phone due to its incessant ringing. Where on earth is Debbie? She has some serious explaining to do and it better be good! I thought irritably. “Why are you in an awful mood sweet? Actually it’s our night out and I am hosting. So I thought I will make it a theme thing. I am totally out of ideas, any suggestions Tobs?” Bola asked. “Oh my goodness, I totally forgot about our Girls’ night out! Our outings are sacrosanct and no excuse is tolerated. I will have to inform Dennis and I know he will be livid with rage but he will just have to understand. I asked Bola to give me a minute and that I will get back to her. “Well whatever you decide, please make sure it includes a sleepover, I want to spend time with you girls” Bola said laughing. “On second thought we can discuss it now; a slumber party? Ok why don’t we also have a ‘picnic dinner party’? Let’s lay a picnic blanket in your backyard and serve picnic foods like a charcuterie plate (it’s the French word for any smoked, dry-cured or cooked meat. It also includes bacon, ham, pate and sausages, there are other esoteric items on the list but let’s leave that for now). We could also add this; dressing up the way we would if we were still in High School”. It will be fun! We will be combining three themes; ‘slumber party’, ‘picnic dinner party’ and ‘come as you were’ I said laughing excitedly. “Tobs, fantastic! I love it. Thank you darling, I know you will come up with something fabulous. See you soon love, I need to prepare for the night and inform the Girls,” she said beside herself with excitement. When she dropped, my heart sank. How do I inform Dennis that tonight will not be possible? I hurriedly finished what I was doing but it took me double the time because I was so distracted. I rushed home to prepare for the evening. I had taken the cowards way out and did not call Dennis. As soon as I stepped out of the House in my macro mini getup and tennis shoes, I found Dennis waiting for me.