Laide Raheem, Abeokuta Executive Director of Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors (ANED), Sunday Oduntan, has said unless there was credible and accurate population census in Nigeria, adequate power generation and distribution would continue to be a mirage in the country. Oduntan, who equally absolved Power Distribution Companies (DISCOS) from being responsible for epileptic power supply in the country, noted that Nigeria must generate at least,180,000 megawatts of electricity to ensure stable and adequate power supply. The ANED Executive Director, made this known on Wednesday in Abeokuta, in his remarks at the stakeholders forum with the theme, “Estimated billings, Inability to Provide Pre Paid Meters, Non Compliance with National Electricity Regulation Commission (NERC) regulations and Erratic Power Supply in Ogun State by IBEDC and IKEDC”, organised by the Ogun State House of Assembly. The forum was attended by civil society organisations, electricity consumers, representatives of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) in Ogun State and state government representatives. Oduntan, pointed out that power generation in the country is too low, saying the federal government must step up efforts in ensuring more megawatts are generated to satisfy the power needs of Nigerians. He noted that South Africa with a population figure of 67 million is currently generating 48,000 megawatts against 39,000 megawatts the country needs and decried Nigeria’s failure to generate at least 20,000 megawatts. Oduntan, who thumbed up President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration for increasing power generation to 5,150 megawatts, the highest in the country since 1980, bemoaned corruption in the power sector in Nigeria. “Nigeria has no credible population census, and you cannot distribute power without accurate census. Nigeria needs about 180, 000 megawatts for there to be adequate power supply. South Africa, with 67 million people generates 48,000 megawatts and they are now even working to increase the generation to 79,000. 5,150 megawatts was the maximum we generated since 1980. Let us be sincere with ourselves, to generate power is expensive. To do 1,000 megawatts, you will need about $1.2b,” he stated. On meter distribution to consumers, Oduntan, disclosed that 4.1 million meter gap has been identified, adding N295b will be needed by DISCOS to provide both three-phase prepaid and postpaid meters at the rate of N73,000 per unit. Earlier in his address, the Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Suraj Ishola Adekunbi, explained the forum was organised by the House, to give opportunity to various stakeholders, to air their views on the issue of electricity supply in Ogun State.