 Layi Olanrewaju, Ilorin Officers of Kwara state police command are currently combing every nooks and crannies of Ilorin, at press time to unravel the mysteries that surrounded the assassination of a Director Planning in the Ministry of Economic Planning and Development of Kwara State, Mr Victor Kayode Dada, by a group of five people including a woman who murdered him in cold blood, last Wednesday, in Ilorin.
It was reliably gathered that, Mr. Dada in his 50s, was in his office along Lajoorin area of Ilorin, on the fateful day, when he received a call that he should come to Airport road,to which he told his staff and left office for the destination.
On getting to the Airport road, the assassins, which had clinically hatched the plan, asked the caller to engage him in a discussion, and was eventually driven to one of the adjoining roads,far from the main road, along the Airport road, while another vehicle was trailing them.
Impeccable sources disclosed to Daily sun that ,at a point the vehicle stopped, and members of the assassination group disembarked from the trailing vehicle and dragged him out and attacked him.
The source also claimed that, there were traces all over his remains that the victim indeed struggled to free him self from his attackers but was overpowered by them.
They were said to have overpowered him and poured acid in his mouth and his body.
His remains was later put in his own car and was said to have been driven back to the main road at the Airport road, and was locked up inside his car.
The only woman, among the assassination group was said to have picked his GSM handset to call the wife of the deceased at around 4am that she should come and carry the remains of her husband somewhere along the Airport road.
‘’All the numbers on the phone were promptly deleted from the phone,before the assailants left him. Nothing was taken away from his car, and there was money inside his car and other valuable items.All of them were intact’’The source stressed.
Continuing , the source said,‘’There were traces on his body that he also fought them back,but they overpowered him. He had a big stature and he was tall, but the attackers too must be strong, but there was no way that as the only person, he could escape from them’’
‘’Only God knows what actually happened between him and those people’’
Investigation revealed that, his remains would be buried in Oro-Ago,in Ifelodun local government area of the state on the 24th of June,2018.
Contacted, the Spokesman of Kwara state police command, DSP Ajayi
Okasanmi confirmed the incident.
‘’My office has been duly informed of the sad incident. It was really surprising my brother,but we have commenced investigation into the matter. It was one of the top issues we discussed at the management meeting this morning”, he said.
Ends