In the story of his children and grandchildren there is no information that Adam and Eve had a daughter or daughters. Only the names of their sons and other male descendants are available in the family’s genealogical account, which begins in Genesis 4:1 – 16 with the report of the births of Cain and Abel. There is also no information in the first three chapters of the Book of Genesis and in the first 16 verses in Chapter 4 that the Heavenly Father created another man and woman as husband and wife after Adam and Eve and that they gave birth to a female child. Yet, in verse 17 of the same Chapter 4 Cain and his wife, whose name and how she came into being are not stated, are said to have had a son they named Enoch. In verses 19 – 23 is also the story that a man called Lamech had two wives, Adah and Zillah, who had two sons and a son for him respectively. The fact, that there is no information that the Ancient of Days created another couple after Adam and Eve raises puzzles on how the first couple came to have grandchildren and other descendants. Who were the parents of the wives of Cain and Lamech? Or did the Lord create the three women in the different miraculous ways He brought into being Adam in Genesis 1:27 and Eve in Genesis 2: 21 – 24? And whichever way they came into the world, why were their births and names not made available in the Holy Bible? For the answer to the questions on the origin and name of the wife of Cain and information on how Adam and Eve had grandchildren, I thank 80 year – old Igede – Ekiti – born Dr. Stephen Adeosun for letting me know about the 22 – chapter “Forgotten Books of Eden.” A book published in 1926 by Rutherford H. Platt Jr., who was said to have obtained his information from documents on what was said about the children and other offspring of Adam and Eve by some prophets, King David and others in the Old Testament and some disciples of Jesus Christ in the New Testament.
Reading the Forgotten Books of Eden” online I got information not available in the Holy Bible that Eve gave birth to Cain and a twin – sister named Luluwa, which means beautiful and was given to her because she was said to have been prettier than her mother. And that Abel, Cain’s brother, came in a triplet – birth with two sisters. This means that Cain and Luluwa were the first twins in the world and not Esau and Jacob as it is in Genesis 25: 19 – 34. And that Abel and his sisters were the first triplets. The names of the sisters of Abel are not available online, but Dr. Adeosun said one of them was called Axlemia. But he doesn’t know the name of the other one. In the information in the “Forgotten Books of Eden.” Cain married Luluwa while Abel wedded one of his two sisters in his triplet – birth. The hatred Cain had for Abel, and which ended in his killing him, was said to have started with the dispute of who of them was to have married their third sister. See Genesis 4:3 – 16 for Cain’s murder of Abel and how God punished him. Seth, the third son of Adam and Eve, whose birth is reported in Genesis 5:1 – 3, like his brothers, Cain and Abel, was said to have married another sister of theirs named Azura. But there is no information if they were twins or if she was part of a triplet – birth or the unmarried sister born with Abel. From these stories, I have three issues to find out from the Ancient of Days and Father of creation. To be continued next Wednesday  Phenomenal matriarch of the Adedipes, Falaes, Ade –Ojos & others (6) My dad did not seek re – election in 1959. So, it was Mr. William Jose Falaiye, his colleague in the Action Group, who defeated the NCNC candidate that was elected to replace him as Akure’s member in the House of Representatives in Lagos. But in the next poll that took place in 1964, it was my late cousin, High Chief Bolanle Arifalo Adedipe of the Nigerian National Democratic Party (NNDP), the son of Uncle J. B. Arifalo Adedipe, one of my father’s elder brothers, who was elected. In other words, three of the four politicians who represented Akure in the National Assembly in colonial times (1951 – 59) and the First Republic (1960 – 66) were from our Adedipe family. It is a record in Nigeria and a rare thing in the world and one that shows the abiding love Akure people have for the Adedipes for their services to the community and the enhancement of its image in Nigeria. Especially as the three members of the family won their elections through different political parties. Uncle J.B. was elected into the Legislative Council in 1951 as the candidate of the National Council of Nigeria and Cameroon (NCNC), my dad in 1954 as that of the Action Group (AG) and Cousin Bolanle in 1964 as the flag – bearer of the NNDP. The Kennedys in America are the other family I know in the world who had three of their members elected into the National Assembly (Congress) of their country. Late President John Kennedy was in the Senate, his immediate younger brother Robert Kennedy replaced him and the youngest of them all, Edward Kennedy followed the latter. But unlike our family, the Kennedys did not have a father and a son situation in parliamentary representation.
More to come next week Ebenezer Babatope, the great (8) I am not aware of any other columnist in Nigeria who had praised and promoted another columnist in his write – ups as Ebino did for me in the three years from 2014 – 17 in his space in the Nigerian Tribune. On Friday, October 3, 2014 he gave the names of the three columnists he reads and had high regards for. These are Professor Jide Osuntokun who writes in the Nation on Thursday, Femi Orebe who does so in the Sunday edition of the same newspaper and me. Incidentally, the three of us are alumni of Christ’s School, Ado – Ekiti in the 1956 – 60, 1957 – 61 and 1959 – 63 sets respectively. Of the three, my name was the first Ebino mentioned and my column (PABULUM) was the only one he named and the day it is published the only he came up with in the article.
Continues next week