Wole Balogun, Ado-Ekiti Person With Disabilities (PWD), on Wednesday, sought for equal voting rights from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) during the Ekiti and Osun governorship polls  as well as the 2019 general elections. Making the advocacy, in Ado-Ekiti, through the Centre for Citizens with Disabilities (CCD) the PWDs said the measure became imperative as part of the ways to protect their rights and make them relevant in the electoral process. They urged Sen. Bukola Saraki-led Senate to transmit the Nigeria Disabilities Bill that had been passed by the two chambers of the National Assembly to President Muhammadu Buhari for assent. Speaking during the flag off  campaign for equal voting access in Ekiti, the CCD Executive Director, Mr. David Anyaele, said INEC must fashion ways to remove all barriers preventing their members from participating during elections. Anyaele called  on National Assembly to amend Section 56 of the Electoral Act  to make INEC fulfill its statutory duty of facilitating enabling environment for members during elections, failing which, “We can hold INEC accountable for the implementation of the provision”. He added: “About 25 million Nigerians are living with disabilities and they must not be prevented or  marginalized  or neglected to ensure that everybody participates in electoral process. “Eligibility right is a unique component of election, and amending section 56  of the Electoral Act by replacing the word may  there with shall will make it imperative for INEC to be alive to its responsibilities to PWDs rather than charity-based  provision. “To prevent apathy among PWDs during elections, INEC must locate polling units on flat surface areas, provide brailed ballot papers and magnified glasses at polling units, so those with visual impairment, those on wheel chairs and other disability forms can have access to vote”. On the bill Nigeria Disabilities Bill, Anyaele appealed to NASS to fasttrack action in transmitting the passed bill to President Buhari for assent, “This bill makes holistic provisions for us in terms of employments, healthcare needs, education and so on. It will stop all forms of discrimination against us. “Governor Segun Oni assented to the bill as the governor of Ekiti State that certain percentage must be given to PWDs in all areas of opportunities, but it was later repealed even without any effort to provide another legal framework to help our people. “The passage of disability bill will take care of all these needs holistically”, he said. The General Secretary of the Joint National Association of Persons Living with Disabilities in Ekiti, Mr. Funso Olajide, regretted that only the aged and children were being captured when governments were making provisions for vulnerable groups. Olajide appealed to security agencies to always accord members priority at polling units anytime there is crisis . 