Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Oyo State, Alhaji Kunmi Mustapha, has declared that the party will defeat the All Progressive Congress (APC) in the 2019 general election. Mustapha said the PDP has fashioned out an action plan to defeat APC in Oyo State in next year’s elections. The PDP chairman disclosed this in his reaction to the electoral victory of PDP in the by-election conducted in Ibarapa east constituency, to fill the vacant seat in the state House of Assembly, following the former speaker’s death, Michael Adeyemo.
The by-election was conducted by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) last weekend and the candidate presented by PDP, Mr. Adebo Ogundoyin, won after he defeated the APC candidate, Mr. Olukunle Adeyemo, who is the late speaker’s younger brother. The results released by the electoral umpire showed that three political parties participated in the poll, including PDP, APC and Accord Party. But, PDP scored 6,227 votes as against APC’s 4,619 votes while Accord polled 2,859 votes.
“Although PDP has won convincingly, we are aware of the enormous amount of work to be done ahead of 2019 elections. “The party is well prepared to take the bull by the horns, by fashioning out an action plan to defeat APC across the 33 local governments of the state.
“PDP has got marching order from the electorate to sack APC from the state and we believe they are not asking too much,” the party chairman said.
Mustapha, however, commended the people of Ibarapa East council, who voted for the PDP candidate in the election, on behalf the PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, state executives, the entire leadership and members of the party.
He dedicated the victory to the PDP leader in Oyo, Senator Rashidi Ladoja, who is a former governor of the state, for his unwavering support before, during and after the election.
Mustapha, in a statement by the party’s Publicity Secretary, Mr. Akeem Olatunji, said: “PDP was simply amazed with the gallant bravery displayed by the Eruwa people.”