Rita Okoye Mofe Boyo has been in music all her life. But then her love for music grew harder when she dabbled into the business of music. Now, she runs a movement called Team Mofe Music, where she develops and grows talents, with the hope of nurturing them to superstardom someday. In this chat, the University of Benin graduate of Science Laboratory Technology talks about her passion for music, challenges and why she has remained celibate over the years. Enjoy it. Can you tell us about yourself? I am Mofe Boyo. I studied Science Laboratory Technology in University of Benin. I also took time out to study music as well as music business. I am into music business. I’m a musician, an entertainer. I run a movement called Team Mofe Music. It’s not a label; it is a movement. I have a couple of artistes I nurture, so I can say I owe them a deal. Team Mofe Music is a moving train; quality content and delivery is our watchword. We are proud to say that we give you tomorrow’s music today! What was your inspiration? Music is a passion; I didn’t grow up liking so many individuals in music. I took music from a personal perspective. I was the only girl in the school band during my secondary school days. Later, Lauryn Hill and Missy Eliot caught my fancy. My love for music grew harder when I started my music business course. P. Diddy and Jay Z became my major sources of inspiration. They are not just musicians, they are music entrepreneurs and that inspired me a lot. How long has the business existed? I have been in music all my life and I have spent seven years in music business. What challenges did you face in launching Team Mofe Music? Music business in Nigeria is like climbing Mount Everest, you never know if you would make it to the top, and that is the biggest fear. Music business is very capital intense. For example, you need about N1.5 million to shoot a quality video. And to promote it very well, you need a lot more than that. Heavyweight music producers like Masterkraft charges as high as N400,000 per production. All these are lots of money when you are starting. But then, we are still faced with the challenges of finance and getting quality staff. What helped you sustain the business so far? I told you earlier that I write songs and I get paid for it. It is completely legal and I advise many people to do it. A lot of songs I have written don blow. This gives me a very strong belief that I am doing the right thing. It is only a matter of time before everybody starts screaming ‘Mofe’ and this is the greatest force that sustains my business. Did you have formal training in showbiz? Oh yes, I believe you have to know 100 per cent about your business. After I graduated from University of Benin, I enrolled at Kings Voices Music Academy for a six-month training, and in the process, I was also introduced to music production. I later got a diploma in music business/management from Berkley College of Music, USA, and this has really changed my life and career. Where do you see your business in five years? Ha! I cannot see the future o! Just kidding! In five years, we want to have at least a household name and at least five other music stars. We are working meticulously on that and we are almost done with the foundation. Once the walls are coming up, you guys will see. Don’t say I did not tell you! Do you have any regrets so far? 
Yes, spending six years in the university to study Science Laboratory Technology made me start my music career late. How did your boyfriend welcome your decision to join the entertainment industry?
I don’t have a boyfriend. Why? He broke your heart? No heartbreak at all. He left the country and it ended. I didn’t bother dating again. Since then you have not had sex? You remained celibate?
Yes, for three years now, I have been celibate. Why? What motivated that?
I’m a reserved person. I’m not a relationship freak. I don’t just jump into a relationship because of loneliness; I take my time. I’m very selective. I love class, humility, sincerity but a lot of these guys just want to play. And I wouldn’t be a party to that. When do you think is the right time for you to date again?
When the right man surfaces, I will know from his qualities. Time will tell if he is sincere. With time, I will know him better. What are the physical qualities you want in your dream man? He must be classy, neat, good looking, and God fearing. He must also be cool-headed and a very ambitious man. If he is ambitious then his pocket will be full someday. With your experience, what advice do you have for young people who would like to start up music business?
Be fearless! There are too many reasons not to start. Except you are fearless, you will not start. Fortune favours the bold.