Linus Oota, Lafia Governor Umaru Tanko Al-Makura of Nasarawa State has that the party in the state under his leadership will replaced the incumbent national vice chairman, North Central of the party Hon Zakari Idde with Hon Sulieman Ahmed Wambai at the national Convention of the party slated for June 23rd 2018 in Abuja.
Governor Al-Makura explained that he has concluded the arrangement with all the governors in the north central and the FCT minister to present Hon Sulieman Ahmed Wambai, a former chairman of Lafia local government of Nasarawa state as a consensus candidate for the position of National vice chairman, North Central of party.
The governor who stated this weekend in Lafia while receiving the state working committee of the party led by the state chairman Philip Tatari Schekwo who paid him a Sallah homage.
He said that all the stakeholders of the party in the north central have agreed that the position should be maintained in Nasarawa state.
But speaking to our correspondent on the development, the incumbent national vice chairman of the party from the zone Hon Zakari Idde who is seeking a second term in office said he is not aware of such arrangement and that he is going ahead to contest the position at the convention.
He said that the directive from the president is that status quo should be maintained which means that those occupying their positions in the party should continue “so I will seek a return to my office at the convention” he said
Governor Al-Makura equally explained that he has no anointed candidate for the APC governorship ticket in 2019.
Al-Makura who revealed his intention to contest the 2019 Nasarawa South Senatorial election, assured APC members of level playing field for all the governorship aspirants.
He said that he will support the most popular and acceptable aspirant by the people of the state, vowing that he will never interven in the APC governorship primaries.
The outgoing governor also said that he is not and will not sponsor any governorship aspirant in the state neither will he impose a candidate on the party and by extension the people of the state.
He prayed that God should give the state a governor that will sustain his legacies and maintain the peace already existed in the state under him.