Rose Ejembi, Makurdi A group of aggrieved members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) from the Benue South Senatorial District (Zone C) under the aegis of The Like Minds has condemned and rejected the outcome of the ward, local government and state congresses of the party which held recently. Addressing newsmen, on Monday, in Makurdi, Chairman of the  group, Dr. Mathias Oyigeya, maintained that what took place was a total deviation from the directive of the National Executive Council (NEC) of the party adding that the whole exercise was marred by impunity. Oyigeya lamented that party members who were interested in contesting various party positions were denied the opportunity of executing their franchise. “For instance, Mr. Noah Dickson, Hon. Bernard Ochepa and Hon. Benson Audu paid for forms for the state chairmanship position while Engr. Okoye Onah paid for the Vice Chairmanship position for Zone C. They were all denied the forms. “It is most unfortunate that in spite of all these anomalies, there has been no conscious effort to initiate reconciliatory moves in order to appease the aggrieved members of the party. The group, while describing the conduct of the congresses as a blatant contravention of the NEC’s resolution and directive which stipulates that elective congresses be held, expressed worry over the manner in which the party congresses were conducted. They regretted that the objective of the group which was to partner with the party executives to win the 2019 general and subsequent elections in the zone was gradually hitting the rocks as their efforts to work and ensure such victory were being rebuffed. “What is more worrisome is the fact that the APC is still not on ground in the zone as evidenced in the composition of the present membership of both state and national legislative houses which are heavily tilted in Favour of the PDP. “We are not happy with the way the (APC) congresses were conducted and the leaders of the party should sit down and talk about it. We don’t have anything to do with the national convention. All we are doing is sensitising the leadership that we are not happy.”  