• Describes Enugu gov as great leader House of Representatives Speaker, Yakubu Dogara, has extolled the leadership virtues of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State, describing him as ‘an established leader’. He said Ugwuanyi is being celebrated widely because of his closeness to the people and effective delivery of dividends of democracy in spite of the country’s economic challenges. Dogara, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), decsribed Ugwuanyi as “a very nice man to a fault,” who “wants to please everybody”, saying he has “done exceptionally well” in office that members of the National Assembly, in particular, and the people of Enugu State “are exceedingly proud of what you have achieved.”
The speaker, who spoke during the grand reception for Ugwuanyi by members of the Enugu State National Assembly caucus, said he was delighted at the governor’s popularity and humility. He said: “When I went to Enugu and I saw market women and so many indigenes of that state coming to the Government House, dancing and singing. “Ugwuanyi is such a person you will never meet in mansions when you go to Enugu. You will meet him among his people and that is where the heart of a leader should be.”
On Ugwuanyi’s unprecedented achievements in spite of the state’s lean resources, Dogara recalled the governor’s firm belief in the miracle of ‘five loaves and two fish’ and said, “our brother (Ugwuanyi) who is a true leader is performing beyond expectations with the very little resources that he has.” Deputy Majority Leader of the Senate, Bala Na’allah, who represented the Senate President, Bukola Saraki, also eulogised Ugwuanyi for his outstanding leadership qualities and said “he is one of the most decent and honest persons I have worked closely with. Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, on behalf of the federal lawmakers from Enugu state, said Ugwuanyi’s endorsement was predicated on his development strides and leadership style characterised by justice, equity, and peace. In his response, Ugwuanyi, said the prevailing peace and cooperation between the federal lawmakers and his administration have resulted in numerous constituency projects and Federal Government interventions in the state.