Laide Raheem, Abeokuta A member of the House of Representatives and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship aspirant in Ogun State, Oladipupo Adebutu, has declared that the incumbent governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) will lose to the PDP come 2019 general elections. According to Adebutu, the decision of APC to stick to Ogun West senatorial district for its gubernatorial candidate, instead of Ogun East, would ultimately lead to the ruling party’s defeat next year. He equally said that the alleged concentration of capital projects by the governor in Abeokuta at the expense of other zones in the state, will also contribute to the defeat of APC in 2019. The lawmaker, representing Remo Federal Constituency, stated this while featuring on a live interview radio programme and monitored on Monday, in Abeokuta, Ogun State capital. He said the electorate were fed up with APC  in the state, adding “they were already yearning for the return of PDP to power in 2019 notwithstanding the internal squabbles rocking the party”. He further, accused the APC of attempting to breach the age-long rotation of governorship position between the two geo-political divisions of Egba/Yewa and Ijebu/Remo in  Ogun State. “There are three facets from which I look at it (zoning and Yewa-Awori clamour for governorship). We have zoned and zoned and got nothing out of it. We have used federal character and nothing has come out of it. For me, zoning has to be for the purpose of success. “My second position is that essentially, Ogun State arose from two divisions – Ijebu/Remo division and Egba/Yewa division. To that extent, we have nine local governments in Ijebu/Remo and 11 on the side of Egba/Yewa. It has been rotated between the two divisions. The Egba/Yewa division is doing two terms now. By this arrangement, it should come to Ijebu/Remo division. “But the most painful thing is that, as a party, the PDP came to the recognition that it should go to the Yewa segment of the division for the last two elections. We abided by the agreement and picked our candidates from Yewa in the last two elections. “In the last two elections, no contestant came out from the Ijebu/Remo axis in the PDP. We waited for eight years. But in those eight years, the Ogun West people were not able to manage the number of contestants in their area. They are at it again now”. Adebutu stated. On the crisis rocking the PDP in Ogun State, the lawmaker said the party had commenced reconciling aggrieved members, noting all contending interests will be harmonized before 2019. He said, “PDP is the most democratic institution in Nigeria. In Ogun State, over time, we have learnt and imbibed the culture of inclusion. We have different tendencies and different opinions. But we have a culture of forming a rainbow coalition for the betterment of our people. “All members, even and members of other parties that have failed, have joined PDP; our party being the only party that reflects the unity of Nigeria and oneness of Nigeria. We have built consensus as a way of life for the PDP. “I can assure you that Senator Buruji Kashamu, OGD, Ladi are members of one family ultimately. So, everybody is welcomed.”