Uche Usim, Abuja
 
The Accountant –General of the Federation (AGF), Mr. Ahmed Idris, has said that the reasons for the  shortfall in the salary of the Nigerian Police Force springs from the statutory deductions on the Integrated Personnel Payroll Information System (IPPIS) platform, saying such was applicable to every employee on the platform. He added that some of the deductions include the National Housing Fund(NHF), which is 2.5 per cent of the basic salary, Employees Pension  and PAYE tax as stipulated by the Joint Tax Board(JTB), which nobody can do anything about. The AGF stated this while receving a police delegation led by Assistant Inspector General of Police, (AIG)  Abdul  Salami Iyaji, to deliver a letter from the Inspector General of Police and to discuss other matters of mutual interest. Idris said he had wadded into the challenges involved with the enrollment of the members of the Nigeria Police Force(NPF) on the IPPIS platform, by taking personal responsibility of overseeing the process of resolving all impending issues. On the issue of the newly promoted police officers, the AGF directed the police to make a comprehensive list of all officers involved, indicating their IPPIS numbers. This is with a view to addressing the matter holistically to avoid any body being left out. He also urged the police authorities to endeavour to educate their men on these issues, adding that there is no going back on the president’s directive to enroll the NPF and other Security Agencies on the IPPIS platform. AGF described the seeming intractable issues emanating from the enrollment of the NPF on the IPPIS platform as unacceptable and which should be dispensed with without further delay. He directed the Nigeria Police to submit all the required documents requested by the IPPIS department to his office and that he would personally supervise the process of resolving the matters immediately. Idris also directed the IPPIS Consultant, Messrs Soft Alliance, to immediately deploy additional personnel to ensure that all issues are resolved within the shortest time possible.