Bianca Iboma The best graduating student of Babcock University, Ilishan, Ogun State, Agbojo Michael Asedotun is an exceptional student. Agbojo told The Education Report that he followed the directions that God gave him and the emerged the best graduating students. The 28-year-old Christian Religious Studies graduate topped the 2017/2018 academic session, finishing in First Class Division with a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 4.97. Agbojo disclosed that the grace of God was upon his life because he was not a book warm who read always. His words: “I set my mind to serve God even while on campus. I was pastoring a congregation along side my academics. It was challenging but I was able to focus on my studies and also do God’s work. “Everything I needed was in the word of God, it takes a lot of energy in the physical to study but with the grace of God, it becomes easy. My outstanding performance was just unction of God’s enabling grace.’’ The Ogun State indigene smiled home with four awards including the vice chancellor’s prize for the best graduating students. He said the university has shaped his life positively paving way for his successful career path. “Babcock University has not only taught me, but equally showed me that it is possible to excel in every aspect of my life without compromising my dream and aspirations. The institution has opened my eyes to the realities of life challenges and how I can surmount them,” he stated.
Agbojo explained that things were not all that rosy while on campus. According to him, graduating with a First Class was not his target. Relating his experiences, he said, “I decided to maintain a reading culture of two hours every day due to the enormous church activities I have to attend to. I kept my studies simple and interesting. I used the library or my room, I paid attention in class and above all, I trusted God for success.”
He disclosed that reading for two hours everyday for something that normally would have taken a longer hours made him more focused and committed to the business of God.
A trained pastor, he said he had a girlfriend that was two years ahead of him. “She graduated two years ago but played an unforgettable role that contributed to the success of what I celebrate today. He said he had memorable experience on campus, noting that the awesome state of the faculty, the conducive learning environment, amiable lecturers contributed a great deal to his academic success. Out of the 2,185 Leo Class of 2018, 37 graduated in First Class Division. The colourful celebration was attended by the Ekiti State Governor, Ayo Fayose, Ogun State governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, who was represented by the Chief of Staff, Tolu Odebiyi, President, Loma Linda University Hospital, California, Dr. Richard Hart, the Akarigbo of Remoland, Oba Babatunde Ajayi and other dignitaries. Governor Amosun charged the graduating students to make good use of the knowledge acquired and contribute to the development of the state.
Amosun urged them to gird their loins and prepare for the challenges ahead, as they move into the labour market. “Most importantly, they should learn to be self-reliant, the attitude of over-reliance on white collar jobs should not be the only option; look inward for survival and be self reliant. “No government anywhere in the world has a monopoly of capital and wherewithal to provide qualitative education, especially at the tertiary level. That is why the contribution of this citadel of learning is highly appreciated, a faith-based institution is applauded for propagating well moral,” he pointed out. The Akarigbo acknowledged the challenge of unemployment in the country and advised the graduating students to utilise the skills acquired and face their future with determination.
He said the university had placed the graduating students on the path of success, while lauding the institution for nurturing a generation of young Nigerians and African leaders. In his remarks, Governor Fayose applauded the students including his son, Bolu, for their performance and successful completion of a journey. He charged the graduating class to keep the banner of excellence higher. Noting that many students were already playing leadership role in different spheres, he implored them to continue their good work and invest their skill and good moral acquired from the university in the growth and development of the country. Fayose commended the institution for impacting morals and academic excellent on the students. He said he took advantage of schools in Nigeria to develop his children. “All my children attended schools in Nigeria,’’ he said.