•Says Nigerians not fooled by APC slogan Ndubuisi Orji, Abuja The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has challenged the  new National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, to immediately submit himself to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) for investigation; over allegations of corruption levelled against him. The PDP, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said since the petition against Oshiomhole at the EFCC is already public knowledge, he should quietly submit himself for investigation, in his own interest, as well as in the interest of the Presidency and the APC. The opposition party noted that until the new APC chairman is cleared of the allegations against him, he lacks the rectitude to speak publicly as a leader. The party also noted that since one of the campaign promises of the ruling party, during the 2015 general election was to fight corruption, “it will be incongruous for Oshiomhole to go about his new assignment with allegations of corruption, even as tiny as a strand of hair, hanging on him.” The PDP added that “the essence of Oshiomhole’s emergence as President Muhammadu Buhari’s sole candidate was not lost on Nigerians as the presidency imposed him as a pliable instrument; to frustrate other would-be presidential aspirants of APC extraction and hand the ticket to president Buhari, who, obviously, is afraid to stand a presidential primary due to his failures in office. “With Saturday’s charade, APC and its Federal Government, which claims to have zero tolerance for corruption, have eaten their vomit, confirming that they have been hypocritical and trending on lies, deception and propaganda. “With the outcome of Saturday’s convention, the APC has kissed internal democracy goodbye, in the selection of its candidates, at all levels, as the national leadership, led by people burdened with corruption allegations, cannot but submit to the whims and caprices of those who granted them official protection from prosecution.” In another  statement also signed by Ologbondiyan, yesterday, the PDP said Nigerians cannot be fooled by its change of slogan from “change to progress,” According to the party,  it is a direct insult on the intelligence of Nigerians for the APC to think that by changing its slogan, citizens will forget that the country has not witnessed the “change” the ruling party promised during the 2015 general elections. “How can the APC think that by changing its slogan, Nigerians will suddenly forget that, in the last three years of its administration, the nation has not witnessed the change it promised and that all the campaign promises upon which they rode to power have all turned out to be lies? “Whereas, under the APC misrule, all aspects of our national life have witnessed unprecedented deterioration, its leaders are busy thinking of how to beguile Nigerians with a change of slogan instead of preparing their handover notes,” the PDP said. The opposition party added that APC leaders must know that the solution to the problems their government have unleashed on the country does not lie in sloganeering.