Tony John, Port Harcourt Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, yesterday said Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has redefined governance by reaching out to the electorate through projects execution. Ekweremadu made the remark yesterday, when he commissioned  seven new internal roads in Amadi-Ama community in Port Harcourt metropolis, as part of activities marking the third anniversary of Wike’s administration. He said Wike will be re-elected on the premise of his performance, noting that all those ganging up against the governor will fail. The deputy Senate president noted that for two weeks, the state has been in the news for positive reasons, as daily commissioning of projects has taken over the airwaves. “I can see satisfaction on faces of the people. When we get the opportunity to serve, we must serve the people to the best of our ability. Wike is serving the people of Rivers. “By this time next year, his mandate would have been renewed by the people of Rivers state. And by the time he concludes his second term, Rivers state would have been improved beyond expectations,” Ekweremadu said. Speaking during the commissioning ceremony at Amadi-Ama, Wike said the roads were constructed in fulfilment of promises made to the people of the area. He said: “When we came here for our campaigns, the Amadi-Ama people promised to support us. They kept their own side of the bargain. These roads represent our commitment to the development of this community.” The governor thanked the Amadi-Ama people for their support to the contractors to deliver the roads in line with approved specifications. He said the state government is using high level companies to construct projects in the area .
Also, Commissioner for Works, Mr. Dum Dekor, said the roads were flagged off for construction on August 8, 2017, and delivered seven months later, through dedicated funding. He said though the area is built up, the contractors applied the best professional standards.
Spokesman of the contractors, Mr. Robinson Ndioko, gave a goodwill message while Caretaker Committee Chairman of Port Harcourt City Local Government Area, Prince Amadi Oparaeli, thanked the governor for his outstanding developmental strides and commitment to projects in the area.