Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa Two groups, Niger Delta Peace Initiative (NDPI) and Bayelsa Youths Movement (BYM), have raised the alarm over alleged recruitment of cultists by the All Progressives Congress (APC) ahead the 2019 elections in the state. The two groups also took a swipe at Hon. Ibarakumo Otobo, who was the youngest commissioner in the administration of Governor Henry Seriake Dickson, before he resigned his appointment recently as Commissioner of Youths Development and dumped the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the APC. The two groups accused the APC leadership of planning violence in the 2019 elections to intimidate PDP members and youths of the state because of their support for the Dickson administration. NDPI, in a statement signed by  Diepreye Ayah, described the APC as currently constituted in the state as a party of cultists and alleged that the state leader of the party, former Governor Timipre Sylva was wooing members of the ruling PDP to join the APC. Ayah, who alleged that the APC was currently ‎exploiting the inordinate ambition of some members of the restoration government by promising them tickets ‎for various platform to run in the 2019 elections, maintained that the APC has nothing to offer to Bayelsans. Also, the BYM, in a statement by its Secretary General, Mr. Elisha Inodu, warned Bayelsa youths to be wary of the APC as the party was only interested in recruiting them into cultism to cause mayhem in the 2019 elections. BYM which urged Governor Dickson to remain focused without bothering about the defection of  Otobo, to the APC,  reinstated their support for Dickson’s administration and called on the governor not to entertain fears about his earlier decision to hand over the state to them. Indodu said, “The Bayelsa Youths Movement has observed the recent decision of former Commissioner for Youths Development, Ibarakumo Otobo, to defect to the All Progressives Congress. As a body, the BYM upholds the right of every citizen to personal decisions as Otobo has made in this case of his defection to the APC. “However, we are constrained to call on our Governor to remain focussed in his decision to open the political space to the youth populace in Bayelsa. “He shouldn’t be discouraged by the action of the former commissioner who he gave priority attention out of thousands who supported his Restoration Government and the ideals it represents.” But the state’s Publicity Secretary of APC, Mr. Doifie Buokoribo, in his reaction to the allegations of NDPI and BYM, described the claims as baseless and irresponsible. Referring to the group as faceless, Buokoribo said, “l don’t respond to faceless groups, who make baseless, irresponsible and ungodly claims.”  