Traditional rulers of the 450 autonomous communities in Enugu State yesterday unanimously endorsed Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for a second term in office. The royal fathers, who converged on the popular Michael Okpara square, Enugu, for what they described as a “mega apolitical grand rally” said their decision was in adherence to the stance of “all our brothers, sisters, sons and daughters in various walks of life” on the performance assessment and endorsement of the governor’s re-election in 2019. The Monarchs added that they were delighted by exceptional moral virtues and superlative performance of the governor, saying “all groups of people in Enugu State across political divide have separately approved the performance of Governor Ugwuanyi and have declared him their candidate for the 2019 gubernatorial election.” “This is why we called this mega apolitical grand rally to declare before Nigeria and the world that we stand head and shoulder with our people. Because of our subjects’ wishes, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi is our candidate in which ever political party he chooses to contest,” the Royal Fathers declared. Describing Ugwuanyi as the “most accessible, humble, unassuming, respectful and friendly” governor, the monarchs expressed delight that they have been incorporated into the administrative structure of governance and empowered them to be agents of development of their respective communities. At a colourful event which was also attended by the Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, other members of the National Assembly, the Speaker of the State Assembly, Rt. Hon. Edward Ubosi, among others, the traditional rulers collectively conferred a chieftaincy title of “Omeluoha Gburugburu of Enugu State”on Governor Ugwuanyi as a demonstration of their love and affection for him. The royal fathers equally honoured the governor with a collective presentation of “Ofo” as “the time-honoured symbol of protection, dignity, authority, power and moral rectitude in Igboland”, declaring: “With it, no harm will ever come your way.”