Willy Eya Estranged wife of former president Olusegun Obasanjo, Taiwo Obasanjo, has revealed why her son, Abraham Olujonwo, left his matrimonial home less than one year after his wedding. She blamed the former president for her son’s unhappiness in the marriage, and accused him of insisting on the wedding. Mrs. Obasanjo, who spoke at the corporate headquarters of The Sun Publishing Limited, said Abraham was cajoled into getting married at the time he did. The ex-president’s former wife said her son’s marriage started having problems immediately after the wedding. “Immediately after the wedding, the couple moved into Jonwo’s room at his dad’s palatial home inside Olusegun Obasanjo Hilltop Estate in Abeokuta, Ogun State, with the promise that they would move into their own place, which was undergoing refurbishment then. “Initially, Jonwo would disappear from their home. People started calling me to say my son was missing. I don’t live with them. I live in Lagos while they live in Abeokuta and I said to myself, they have started again. In fact, it was one of his dad’s wives who alerted me. She was surprised that my son didn’t mention what had been happening to me.” She said her son has not been at home since November last year, and added  that as a mother, she is worried. “In this particular case, he left since November 1, 2017. This is June and my son is yet to be found, yet, people are saying I should not be worried.” Asked why Abraham could abandon his home, she replied: “He’s running away from the father. “They should let him come out to say what he’s going through but Chief Obasanjo doesn’t want the whole world to know the marriage is not working because of his big name and status. I am here to let the world know the truth about what my son is going through.” On the personality of her son, she said: “He is not violent but when the heat became too much, he would leave the house and they would start looking for him.” On what happened in the past when Abraham left his home, she said: “Daddy Obasanjo would fish him out and commandeer him back to the house to go and stay with his wife because he used to work with the father and he lives there, too. “Anytime he leaves home to cool his nerves, his wife and others would start calling me, and usually, that was how I got to know he had left the house again. Abraham Obasanjo wedded in May 2017. His mum had filed a lawsuit then to ensure the much-advertised society wedding never materialised but she lost the case.