Tony John, Port Harcourt Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III, has declared that the Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, has opened the eyes of Nigerians to the true meaning of good governance through the delivery of quality projects. Commissioning the State Council of Traditional Rulers’ Secretariat Complex build by Wike’s administration yesterday, Sultan of Sokoto christened Governor Wike, “Mr Opener”. He said: “We will continue to commend you as long as the people commend you. I call you Mr. Opener because you have opened eyes to what governance should be. What you are doing will endear you to the people”. He noted that the transformation of the state under the leadership of Governor Wike is real, pointing out that most of the projects being commissioned as part of the Third Year Anniversary, were inspected by traditional rulers after their national meeting in January, 2018. “We saw these projects with our eyes, nobody told us. You cannot say that this governor has not worked. Even the enemies of progress will acknowledge that something is being done,” the Sultan said.
The monarch noted that government is a process where the leader continues to do what is right, and praised Governor Wike for doing what is right for Rivers people. He further urged the governor to concentrate on agriculture, especially oil palm production, when the people actualise their support for him next year. According to him, no matter the situation, the votes of Rivers people must count and the people allowed to determine their leaders. Speaking at the ceremony, Wike said that his administration resolved to construct a befitting place where the traditional rulers would share ideas and contribute to the development of the state. He said that his administration has worked closely with the traditional rulers to build peace, which has led to the development of the state. He said: “I will always give priority to the welfare of Traditional Rulers. The traditional rulers are key to the stability of the country”. The governor also noted that his administration is committed to the delivery of projects, stressing that the administration will continue to commission key projects irrespective of criticisms by the opposition.
He thanked the state traditional rulers for honouring him, emphasising that the honour will spur him to greater service. Chairman of Rivers State Council of Traditional Rulers and Amayanabo of Opobo, King Dandeson Jaja, said the secretariat will serve as a centre to preserve culture and tradition.
Eze Ekpeye Logbo, Eze Robinson O. Robinson stated that Rivers people will re-elect Governor Wike next year because he is planting projects across the state. The state Council of Traditional Rulers later honoured Governor Wike with the title: “The Pride of Rivers State “ for his outstanding developmental strides. Mayor of Port Harcourt City Local Government Area, Mr. Victor Ihunwo assured the Rivers State governor that the residents of the area will re-elect him. Special Adviser on Special Projects to the Rivers State Governor, Alabo George Kerley, said the secretariat was mid-wifed and delivered by Governor Wike. He said the facilities in the structure would enhance the deliberations of the traditional rulers.