Gyang Bere, Jos President Muhammadu Buhari has urged Nigerians to pray fervently to God to bring the country out of the current prevailing security challenges. He noted that the Federal Government will ensure absolute justice over those that were killed in Plateau and other parts of the country. Buhari disclosed this on Tuesday when he visited Plateau State on the recent killing of over 150 persons by Fulani herdsmen in eleven communities of Barkin-Ladi and Riyom Local Government Areas of Plateau State. The President was accompanied on the visit by the governors of Kebbi, Atiku Bagudu, and Niger Sani Bello state. Others were the ministers of Defence, Mansur Dan-Ali, Interior, Abdulrahman Danbazzau, Information, Lai Muhammed and the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris. “There is nothing i can do to help the situation except to pray to God to help us out of the security challenges. What has happen is a very bod thing, the bottom line is that justice must be allow to take it course. “Fulani herdsmen are used to carrying sticks during grazing but the herders of this days carry AK47, anybody caught with weapon should be arrested.” Buhari urged leadership of various communities in the state to help in controlling the security problems, saying that the people must imbibe the spirit of tolerance to live together. He insisted that his administration would continue with its campaign promises of tackling insecurity, corruption and economic recovery in the country to enthrone affordable living condition for the citizens. Buhari extend condolence on behalf of the Federal Government to those who lost their loved ones and pray to God to grant them the fortitude to bear the lost. The President reiterated the commitment of Federal Government to collaborates with the security agencies in tackling insecurity in the country. Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, said the visit of the President is apt as it provides the opportunity of the people to open up the grief in their hearts concerning the gory killings in the state. Lalong, said the current attack is disturbing and alarming as its left over 200 persons death while several communities have been displaced. “This current attack, your Excellency Mr. President, is very disturbing and alarming because it has left behind in its ugly trail the painful loss of over 200 people, besides the humanitarian challenges confronting thousands of displaced persons whose houses and crops have been burnt and completely destroyed. “Mr. President, our Government has made it clear and you have eloquently stated that you will continue to protect and preserve the sanctity of life. Agents of destabilisation are however he’ll bent on making nonsense of the success you have achieved in dealing with internal security threats to our corporate existence as a nation. “Mr. President, given the number of villages that have been completely ravaged, I wish to re-echo the earlier request we made as a state for the Emergency Special Intervention Fund to help us reconstruct our ravaged communities” He said that burning of places of worship during the attack was worrisome and called on every Nigerian to condemn such act as it is capable of driving the country into religious war.