Fred Ezeh, Abuja The Arewa Youth Assembly (AYA) said it had had enough of killing of unarmed Nigerians in different local communities in Nigeria by suspected armed Fulani herdsmen, thereby demanding for the removal of the service chiefs. The youths said the inability of the Federal Government to end the perceived ethnic cleansing and secure lives and property of Nigerians, which is its primary responsibility, was an indication that it has lost ideas and capacity to protect the territorial integrity of Nigeria. They were particularly surprised that, in spite of being northerners, the service chiefs have failed, woefully, to protect their immediate territory, not to talk of entire Nigeria. Speaker of the Assembly, Hon. Mohammed Salihu, in a statement, on Monday, asked President Muhammadu Buhari, to quickly replace the service chiefs with more competent and resourceful officers that would be sincere and apolitical in handling the delicate security issues. Salihu informed the president that the Assembly has unanimously resolved to withdraw its support for him and his political party in the 2019 general elections, if the killings continue unabated. He observed, “It began in Benue state. It then spread to Zamfara, Taraba, Adamawa, Kaduna and Plateau state where suspected Fulani herdsmen, few days ago, invaded communities of Barkin Ladi, Riyom and Jos South LGAs, killed over 86 people and destroy houses. “We strongly suspect high level conspiracy in the entire fight against insecurity. Of what use are our fighter jets, ground military strength, police forces, naval forces, civil defense corps, DSS and others?” The youths solicited the support of the Christian and Muslim leaders, as well as other religious bodies in the search for peace in troubled locations in Nigeria, instead of statements that promote disunity. The youths thus declared July 10, as National Day of mourning for the victims. It suggested a combine Muslim and Christian prayer session to be held at a venue to be decided in Abuja.