Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja Personal Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Social Media, Lauretta Onochie, in her latest post on her Facebook page, on Wednesday, attacked former President Goodluck Jonathan over his denial of withdrawing N153 billion ahead of the 2015 presidential elections, as alleged by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. Osinbajo had, on Monday, alleged that N100 billion and $289 million in cash were released a few weeks to the 2015 elections. Jonathan’s former aide on new media, Reno Omokri, however, denied the allegation, challenging Osinbajo to provide proof. In a post on her Facebook page, Onochie said Osinbajo was not lying when he made the claim because President Buhari had warned his team against lying to Nigerians. Onochie, who described Osinbajo as ‘a man of honour and integrity’, said he had no reason to lie against  former President Jonathan who she accused of holding the record of presiding over “the biggest national heist in world history.” She wrote, “Who is lying? Definitely not our Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. “I think ex-President Jonathan has run out of good luck. Government is no longer run on propaganda, assumptions, cheek-in-tongue and political correctness. “Facts. That’s how we roll. That’s what Nigerians want. President Muhammadu Buhari always reminds us never to lie to his people. By his people, he means Nigerians. “VP Osinbanjo, a man of honour and integrity in his own rights and standing, has no reason to lie against the man who holds the record of presiding over the biggest national heist in world history. “President Jonathan needs to sober up, think back to 2015. If he can’t remember, I’ll help him. “He was facing humiliation at the polls; he thought money could buy him more votes; not his money, but our money. “He asked the then NSA, Col. Sambo Dasuki, to become a bank and a clearing house. The smokescreen was security, to buy arms. But it was for buying more votes. “Mrs. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala was alarmed when Col. Dasuki approached her for the funds. She did a memo to President Goodluck Jonathan on the issue. “President Jonathan gave approval to Mrs. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala to play ball with Col. Dasuki. Elections were postponed. The money was distributed and recipients hid them in cupboards. Jonathan lost the election! “Here’s Mrs. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala exonerating herself with evidence that she acted according to the instruction originated and approved by ex. President Goodluck Jonathan. So who is lying?” Onochie also attached a letter dated January 20, 2015 written by then Minister of Finance, Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, and addressed to Jonathan. The letter was titled “Re: Request by NSA for transfer of funds.” The minister, in the letter, called the former president’s attention to the request by the NSA for the transfer of $300 million and £5.5 million of the recovered Abacha funds to the ONSA operations account to enable him to purchase ammunition, security and other intelligence equipment for the security agencies to confront Boko Haram. She indicated that the request was sequel to the meeting Jonathan chaired with the committee on the use of recovered funds where the decision was made that recovered Abacha funds would be split 50-50 between urgent security needs and development needs. “This letter is to see your approval to borrow these funds, for now, to disburse to the NSA. “These funds form part of projected Federal Government Independent Revenue to be appropriated. “In light of this and for accountability, given the peculiar nature of security and intelligence transactions, we would expect the NSA to account to Your Excellency for the utilisation of the funds,” she wrote.