Wole Balogun, AdoEkiiti Ekiti State Governor, Ayodele Fayose, has urged politicians that packaged President Muhammadu Buhari in such a way that Nigerians voted overwhelmingly for him to seek God’s forgiveness for the current hardship in the country. He lamented that Nigeria’s economy had become worse under the All Progressives Congress-led Federal Government, which he said had no solution to the myriad of challenges confronting the country. The governor spoke on Monday at a meeting of the Osoko Mass Movement, a Pro-Fayose political platform, attended by representatives of labour unions, civil servants and public institutions in the state. Fayose said, “People that voted Buhari must seek repentance. People thought he was coming to make a difference but he has caused more economic hardship. We are being ruled by fiat. Unemployment is second to none. The Transparency International said corruption had become worse among Nigerians.” The governor urged the people to vote for a well educated candidate in the election and not to sell their votes. He said his deputy, Prof. Kolapo Olusola, is the most read and suitably qualified aspirant to rule the state. “If you say I’m not educated now I have presented a professor. We are not supposed to retrogress, we should progress. A professor is higher than doctor and supervises him. By all standard I’m presenting the most suitably qualified aspirant. “Our interest was somewhere else but his name kept reappearing. Ekiti needs continuity, I have put in my best in the circumstance and I know he will do it better.” Fayose said the APC government have not benefitted the Ekiti people in anyway despite having a former governor of the state, Kayode Fayemi, as the Minister of Mines and Steel Development. He said, “There are many mineral deposits in Ekiti which have been left untapped despite our son being the Minister of Mines and Steel Development. “Buhari spent N40b searching for crude oil in the North; where is Fayemi looking? The state Chairman of OMM, Akinleye Olatunji, pointed out that the opposition was relying on rigging and military to win the election. “They are relyong on rigging and military; they are not mobilising. “Security agencies can’t do anything to us the best man for Ekiti is Eleka; a gentleman to the core. Our voter card is our weapon to vote against APC.”