“Prof, someone gave me a cola-nut during burial in my village and i ate it.  The following day the cola-nut was still hanging on my throat which made me feel very uncomfortable. For more than eight months I have lived with this demonic case which defiled every medical attention. I was in serious pain and every prayer made for me by men of God, was like water poured on a stone. But when I started reading your column and saw what God is using your anointing oil to do in many lives, I decided to order for it. I want to thank God for your life. When I used the oil, three days thereafter, I vomited the cola-nut and I am very strong now. God bless you sir. Mr. Matthew Email: mathew.varghesse999gmail.com “You are truly God sent. I have seen a lot of changes in my business after using your oil, though a lot is yet to be done. I have not reached the zenith yet, but God is in control through you. Now, I know that your oil is real. My wife that got married to me for over 23 years without having any child, used your oil and started having something like contraction thus she was very much afraid. Dear sir, something happened to her that I cannot explain at all. It all happened that after using that oil, she started having pains down her abdomen. I prayed for her thinking that it was a little thing but the pain that looked like contraction continued till the following day when something like a very big ant together with a key came out of her body. She started bleeding for 3 days thereafter it stopped. She conceived in the month of March and had a baby boy after nine months. I am now a happy man because God through your oil did it for me and my wife. This 2015 our God shall do it for us again…God be with you Professor Uzorma…” Mr. John Email globalservices1972@gmail.com Dear Prof, thank God for what he is using you to do. God has shown me that he is great forever. I was poisoned by my step-mother some months ago, she also lucked my business that I do not make any kobo from week to week. She even boasted that I will beg for food. When I read other peoples testimony in your column, I decided to order for the oil, to my surprise, my step mother confessed and asked for forgiveness, I have forgiven her because after I used the oil I vomited a strange substance. I am completely healed now. My business is moving on very well too, I make serious sales now. God has changed my life through the use of your oil. Be blessed. (Names and contact withheld) They could operate as Masters, Grand Masters, Gurus, and many may even go with Christian titles like Bishop, Rev, Pastor, Evangelist, Apostle etc, what matters is the power behind them and not there titles. The Bible says, “And no marvel, for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light. Therefore it is no great thing if his ministers be also transformed as the ministers of righteousness, whose end shall be according to their works” II Cor. 11vs 14. Do not make any mistake about the above biblical assertion; a demonic source could be disguised to appear as a path of light that is, transforming itself as a true source of God in order to deceive anybody. When you carry out any advice or instruction from them, you are directly handing yourself over to the power that operates with such person. It does not matter whether they quote the Bible to support their claim or instruction. There are many agents of darkness who are presently operating their cults as “Christian Churches” they appear physically with Christian titles [as indicated above] but in their various secret places, they manifest as “wolves. Jesus had warned, “Beware of false prophets which come to you in sheep’s clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves. Ye shall know them by their fruits…” Matt. 7:15, 16. Christ, the savior of the world only warned that men should beware because he knew the danger in receiving solution from such prophets. When you visit such a prophet, you can receive “solution” based on the degree and level of satanic consciousness such agent may be operating in the realm of darkness. But the facts still remain that each and every solution you receive from such a “prophet” must put you in bondage and manifest a greater problem for you in one way or the other. It should be emphasized here however that the word “prophet” used by Christ in this connection include all agents of Satan who nevertheless may not operate with the title as prophet but may be called Healer, Master, Primate, Brama, Temple President, Malam, Sheikh, Guru, Lama, Swami, Premie, Alhaji, Pujari, Apostle, Pastor, Bishop and Evangelist to mention only a few. The New Age movements/organizations are not left out of this advanced skill of demonic manipulation. It is consequent upon this that Satanic Sciences and scientists are on daily increase. They are been patronized by so many people in both secular and sacred sections of life. Today in some American owned institutions, people enroll into higher institutions to study witchcraft as academic discipline. No wonder courses like Psychometry, Graphology, Parapsychology, Astrology, Palmistry, and other related occult cum esoteric sciences are studied to advance the mind negatively. Though there are good aspects of the science only when it is academically used to advance the course of socio-economic development of any nation. The daily lives of millions are being influenced by the horoscope, which is one of the ancient Babylonian pseudo-scientific black arts of astrology. Now being sold everywhere and suggested as ideal gifts for children and adults are such occult games as “Ouija”, “Clairvoyant”, ”Horoscope”, ESP, Mystic Eye, and Voodoo. As a result of the above, the public is now interested in occult articles and can easily purchase occult materials such as pendulum, tarot cards for telling fortunes, crystal balls, books on ESP party games involving mind reading, hypnosis and other related black arts. Graphology, a form of fortunetelling through hand writing analysis is now being used by many business firms who regularly consult graphologists to analyze the handwriting of prospective employees in an attempt to read their character, personality and  other traits, to enable them predict their potentiality and worth or lack of it. In recent times, the American CIA is said to have used handwriting analysis alone with other tests to dictate criminals. In Nigeria today, as it is in most parts of the world, so many financial institutions/homes, banks, big finance companies, sales firms, manufacturers, etc do make use of graphologists and physiognomists to access the inner and outer quality of their prospective employees.