The Federal Government is seeking an interim order of the Federal High Court, Abuja to temporarily seize 22 prime properties/assets of Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu located in London, Dubai, Florida and Abuja, that were declared before the Code of Conduct Bureau, CCB. The Motion Ex-Parte was brought before the court pursuant to: Section 330 Of The Administration Of Criminal Justice Act, 2015; Section 8 Of The Recovery Of Public Property (Special Provisions) Act and Section 44 (2)(K) Of The 1999 Constitution Of The Federal Republic Of Nigeria (As Amended). The case filed before the court on Wednesday by Festus Keyamo on behalf of the Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property prayed the court for an interim order of temporarily attaching/forfeiting the properties listed inSchedule B to the Federal Government of Nigeria pending the conclusion of further inquiry/investigation by the Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property and/or possible arraignment of the Respondent and for such orders as the Court might deem fit to make in the circumstances of this case. The grounds upon which the FG is seeking the interim order was that the properties listed in Schedule A hereunder were the properties declared by the Ekweremadu in his Assets Declaration Form at the Code of Conduct Bureau. It said that on-going investigation/inquiries had revealed that the Properties listed in Schedule B also belong to the Respondent (Ekweremadu) and so belonged to him when he declared his assets in Schedule A. Other grounds are: that the properties listed in Schedule B were not declared in the Assets Declaration Form of the Respondent and that preliminary investigation by the Applicant reveals that a prima facie case of a breach of Code of Conduct for Public Officers has been made out against the Respondent. In an affidavit deposed in support of the Motion Ex-parte, by Yohanna Shankuk, a litigation clerk in Festus Keyamo Chambers, it stated thus: Below are Ekweremadu’s undeclared assets Properties Belonging To Ike Ekweremadu Not Declared In His Assets Declaration Forms In Abuja iii.     Housing Estate (Plot 1106 CRD, Cadastral Zone 07-07, Lugbe, Abuja. vii.   Congress Court, Abuja. viii. Flat 1, Block D25, Athletics Street, (24th Street) Games Village, Abuja. Properties In London Properties In Dubai iii.     2 Flats of Burij Side Boulevard (the signature), Dubai vii.   Flat 3604, MAG214, Dubai. viii. Villa No 148, Maeen 1, The Lakes Emirates Hills, Dubai. Properties In Florida, USA. iii.     2763 Club Cortile Circle, Kissime, Florida, USA