Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja The Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting presided over by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Wednesday approved $64 million for power supply to Escravos communities. It also approved the sum of N500 million for the maintenance of the 10-storey building of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), also N459 million for the commission to procure 700 computers, 100 lap tops and 25 laser printers and a third approval for the purchase of 15 utility vehicles. The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Ibe Kachikwu, who briefed State House Correspondents at the end of the meeting alongside his colleague in the Water Resources Ministry, Suleiman Adamu, said if the Escravos power project is implemented, it would stop the N18 million spent  monthly by the Nigerian National Petroleum Crorpoation (NNPC) to provide power to the area. READ ALSO Refineries production capacity down by 18% Explaining further, Kachukwu said, “What we took to the Council today was to seek approval for the award of contract for supply of power to the contiguous communities around the Escravos areas. We had approvals earlier to do the Escravos to Lagos Pipeline system. It was then stalled following protest by the community over the plan to move 50 per cent of the gas to provide power to other areas when the communities did not have power. “Today, Council approved $64 million to fund two lots. One to build the power plant to supply power itself and the other to distribute the power to all the affected communities. “Council granted approval in two lots. With this, we believe power will now be provided for the communities within four or five years and become a permanent structure. The only way we had been able to maintain peace in the communities was to use generators to supply power which had been costing NNPC about N18 million every month to manage.” Shehu on his part explained the approvals to the anti-graft agency, said The EFCC got three approvals from FEC on Wednesday that “They are expanding and need the vehicles for their operations. All the vehicles are from local assembly plants.” Shehu said the council also approved five water patrol boats for the Nigerian Ports Authority, Marina, Lagos, to aid coastline security. Adamu, on his part said Council approved the revised total estimated cost for the complete rehabilitation of the Cham dam and development of 100 hectares of irrigation in Balanga local government of Gombe state. READ ALSO Power back in Maiduguri 8 days after blackout He said, “This is part of our efforts to complete projects we inherited which started in 2011 and suffered from supply of funds. Work stopped at about 65 per cent completion, but we need to complete it so we renegotiated the project with the contractors. We therefore brought request for augmentation for N612 million. The project is being handled by the Upper Benue River Basin Development Authority. It was originally constructed in 1982. It had to be reconstructed. The original contract cost was N832 million in 2011. “Secondly, l was able to brief Council on the latest flood data. The water level in Lokoja had dropped by six centimeters and the water level in Lagdo dam in Cameroon is also going down. So, we think that the worst is over, unless if any unforeseen incidence occurs now. We should be able to see most of the flood waters go down from now on.”