Many other individuals and groups have also come up with their endorsements and counter-endorsements. Casmir Igbokwe As Nigeria’s presidential gladiators prepare for a final showdown at the polls in 2019, I wish to draw our minds back to the run-up to the 2015 general election. It was like warfare. Sundry seers were making predictions. Politics of endorsements also ensued. The same scenario is playing out again in the current dispensation. Nothing has changed. The article below published in The Union in March 2015 captures it all. Peter (not real name) forgot his bike in a popular market in Lagos. When he realised this careless mistake, he became quite disillusioned and thought he would never see it again. Like an antelope running away from a predator, he immediately dashed out to search for his motorcycle. To his greatest surprise, he still found it where he left it. His joy knew no bounds. One particular Sunday, this happy man decided to do a special thanksgiving in his church. He parked his bike on the church’s premises and went to worship and thank God for His goodness and mercies. After the church service, Peter headed for where he parked his bike. The thing was not there. He brought out his brown handkerchief and wiped his face. Again, he looked everywhere, but no trace of the motorcycle. Gradually, it dawned on him that his priced asset for which he came to do thanksgiving had been stolen! When a Lagos-based Catholic priest told his congregation this story a few Sundays ago, people laughed. But that is the reality of Nigeria today. Almost every street has a church and perhaps, a mosque. But for most people, this professed love for God is phoney. Nigerian politicians understand this perfectly and they are exploiting it to the fullest. Some of them have hired pastors, imams, and sundry men of God to endorse their candidates for one position or the other. Some of these ‘men of God’ go beyond endorsing candidates. They predict, based on presumed revelation from God, who will become the next President of Nigeria. For instance, on New Year’s eve, a popular Catholic priest, Fr. Ejike Mbaka, in a sermon to his large followers, not only endorsed the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Muhammadu Buhari, but also predicted his victory in the March 28, 2015, poll. The same man, in November last year, had praised the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, Goodluck Jonathan, and prayed for him to return to power as President of Nigeria. Mbaka’s doublespeak riled a lot of people who tongue-lashed him and asked him to face his spiritual work and leave politics for politicians. Contrary to the cleric’s prediction, witches and herbalists predicted victory for Jonathan. In a recent media interview, the national coordinator and spokesman of Witches and Wizards Association of Nigeria, Okhue Iboi, said his group had endorsed Jonathan in their covens. On his part, Nigerian Nobel laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka, recently came up with 60 reasons he would not vote for Jonathan. He gave tacit support for Buhari. The same Soyinka, in 2007, had catalogued Buhari’s crimes in a well-publicised article entitled The Crimes of Buhari. Soyinka had said, “The grounds on which General Buhari is being promoted as the alternative choice are not only shaky, but pitifully naïve.”  Many other individuals and groups have also come up with their endorsements and counter-endorsements. So far, there have been threats and counter-threats, abuses and counter-abuses, and even fears about the continued existence of Nigeria after the elections. For the main opposition, the APC, the catchword is “change.” At their rallies, they wave their brooms and sometimes do a symbolic sweeping of the ruling party out of power. The party’s presidential candidate, Buhari, has promised to tackle corruption when he assumes office as President. His supporters boast that the man has integrity and tackled corruption when he was the military head of state in 1984. In newspaper advertorials, they paint the picture of a disciplined man who would not brook any nonsense from any quarters. Buhari and his supporters also boast about tackling the prevailing insecurity in the country. As far as they are concerned, President Goodluck Jonathan has failed in protecting life and property of Nigerians. And they have promised that they will deal a serious blow to a group like Boko Haram, if the opposition party takes over government. There are other sundry promises from the stable of the APC such as creating jobs, eliminating poverty and giving each child a meal a day. These are easier said than done. Yes, Nigeria needs change, but from what I have seen of the APC and its candidate, they cannot engender that change. The party is presenting Buhari as a saint now, but he promulgated a decree when he was military head of state and used it retroactively to execute three young Nigerians for drug-related offences. He also used Decree 4 to jail two popular journalists, Nduka Irabor and Tunde Thompson, for publishing what his government considered embarrassing. His sense of fairness is questionable. When he toppled the civilian government of Shehu Shagari in 1983, he unduly jailed some prominent politicians, especially from the South, and left many others, especially from the North where he comes from, to walk free. He kept the then President Shehu Shagari (a northerner) in cosy house detention but detained his powerless deputy who is a southerner, Alex Ekwueme, in Kirikiri Prisons. Besides, when he was the military head of state, Buhari was a bit docile and allowed his deputy, the late Tunde Idiagbon, to overshadow him. This may repeat itself if he returns to power. What surprises many Nigerians is that the leading opposition candidate has bluntly refused to attend a debate with President Jonathan to defend his programmes or manifesto. He claimed the organisers were biased against him. But I suspect that it’s because he is not articulate. He claimed to have a school certificate but has not been able to provide concrete evidence. In 2011, he vowed never to contest for the presidency again. He has breached that vow, contrary to his public image as a principled man. Even his famed anti-corruption stance is in doubt as some Nigerians have continued to wonder how $2.8bn allegedly disappeared when he was the Minister of Petroleum under Olusegun Obasanjo’s military dictatorship. Moreover, there were allegations of corruption and favouritism at the Petroleum Trust Fund during his tenure as the chairman. Currently, many of the so-called progressives who have given him political backing are corrupt. How he will handle them if he becomes President remains to be seen. At 72, the man is not fit for the demanding office of the President of Nigeria. Ironically, the governor of Lagos State and Buhari’s key supporter, Raji Fashola, in one of the campaign tours in Lagos, urged the electorate not to vote old men into office. He said an old man would end up sleeping all through in office. Ultimately, President Jonathan may have made some mistakes. But for Nigeria to enjoy enduring peace, he should be allowed to complete his second term in office. Parking our bikes in Buhari’s church now will bring more calamity to Nigeria. Please prove me wrong if you can. First published in The Union of March 5, 2015. _________________ Sir, accept my condolences for your mother-in-law. May her gentle soul rest in peace, Amen. – George, Umudike, +2348163771224 Life expectancy in Nigeria is very low, one of the lowest in the world; all problems in Nigeria are based on poor governmental management at all levels. Countries survive through establishment of factories and industries by government in partnership with private sector, let someone show me anything that works in Nigeria like every other country in the world; so, hardship kills us because of struggle and high volume of thinking. Who will be Nigeria’s most goodies leader that will have passion for Nigerians? Pity Nigerians. – Friday Idiong, Uyo. +2348141344270 This your burial is for show. It is not Christianity that tells you to keep a dead person for months. It’s a pagan tradition. Some even cannot take care of their sick parents. Only to rush back for eleborate burial. What hypocrisy! – +2347039420025