Geoffrey Anyanwu, Awka The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has said the circle of strikes in the country is as a result of bad leadership. The union, which threatened to strike over non implementation of 2009 Federal Government of Nigeria – ASUU agreement, said strikes have been recurring due to insensitivity of those in position of authority. Addressing newsmen yesterday in Awka his executive, the Zonal Coordinator, ASUU Owerri Zone, Uzo Onyebinama said the union is used to the allegation of being used by government’s opposition, insisting that ASUU is apolitical. “Our union is apolitical, we are not interested in any group of people being in power because as far as we are concerned, the circle of strikes that the union is undergoing is because of bad leadership. “As long as the current sets of leadership are in positions of authority in this country, we will continue to have bad governance and probably this circle of strikes will continue. READ ALSO: Abia Central needs worthy representation – Onyendi “So, we are aware we are going to face that kind of criticism, but, we are not worried by it because we know it is part of politics that the politicians will usually want to resort to when they want to abdicate their responsibilities.” “The union was on strike prior to the 2015 election; during that struggle, the government in power, now in opposition accused the union of being bought by the opposition to undermine the government in power at that time. “Today, again, we are envisaging that there may be an industrial action if government does not do what is needful, and we’re also aware that the government in power today that was in opposition then, will also accuse of being used by the opposition that was in power then to also undermine the government. “So, as far as we are concerned, it is not important who is in power, which government is in power, which party is in power, what we are after is for the government to implement the outstanding components of the agreement they fully entered into with the union. This agreement was entered into by the government that was then in power and government is continuous. “You inherit assets and liabilities and so, we also expect that the government that is in power at moment will also fulfill whatsoever that is outstanding in that agreement. The zone appealed to Nigerians to prevail on government to show good faith and restart the renegotiation process.