Layi Olanrewaju, Ilorin Son of late Chief of Staff Supreme Headquarters, Maj.-Gen. Tunde Idiagbon, Abdulwaheed Idiagbon, has declared his intention to contest for Ilorin East/Ilorin South federal constituency in the House of Representatives in the 2019 general elections. Speaking with newsme, in Ilorin, Kwara State capital, on Wednesday, the aspiring lawmaker said that goodwill of his late father would contribute to factors that to actualise his dream. According to him, “I thank you for saying we are coming into office on the goodwill of our father. “Good name is better than riches. Good pedigree will be leverage point to get into where you want to get into. “My motivation is that I have seen what the dormant development is within my constituency. There is the need for an aggressive change and development. “There are so many unemployed indigenes of Kwara State. There are so many uneducated people in the state”, he said. Idiagbon, who said that there are over 1,000 students under the scholarship scheme he instituted a few years ago, added that he plans to do more. He continued, “My desire is to offer free education to over 15,000 people of not only my constituency but the whole of the state. READ ALSO: 2019: Don’t scare away party members, Kaka warns Ogun APC “Education is important, human support is also very important. We want to help the market women, the jobless by giving them fund to start a trade. We also want to do aggressive empowerment”, he said. The National Assembly aspirant also commended the current federal administration for passing the bill of ‘Not Too Young to Run’, saying that power lies with the youths. “We have so much to offer. We are very innovative. We have the needed exposure and sense of honour to support one another. “We believe if we vote ourselves into office there will be massive and aggressive development in our various communities. “Politics is like a football match with different people coming into the field to display their talents and agenda, but the truth of the matter is that vote belongs to the people. “The people should make the right choice. They know it already and I will advise they don’t make another mistake this time around,” Idiagbon said.