You don’t need any intense or domineering personalities around you and your baby at this time. You need people who are willing to work together Kate Halim When you welcome a baby into the world, everybody wants to visit. Everyone is eager to hold and snuggle your little cutie. And while you are very proud of this new life that you carried in your body for nine months and birthed from your loins through hours of intensive labour, the weeks after giving birth are also a very sensitive time and you don’t have to let just about anyone come over. Your body will be absolutely drained from labour, and from barely sleeping because your baby needs to constantly nurse. Your emotions will be a nightmare because your entire identity just changed. Your life will feel in disarray because you have to drop everything to make room for this massive change in your life. Some friends and family help that transition while others make it worse. Here is who shouldn’t visit right after you have given birth. You know this family member—the one who goes from zero to sixty the moment they notice one little thing that could go potentially wrong. Their brain goes to the worst-case scenario rapidly. They mean well, but they have no filter and can’t temper their concerns. You don’t need that around right now. This friend or family member has the best intentions but, they end up making you feel suffocated. They take on tasks you didn’t ask them to take on—without your permission and do them in their own way, without regard for how you would feel about that. They cause more problems than do good deeds. You don’t need any intense or domineering personalities around you and your baby at this time. You need people who are willing to work together, collaborate, and more than anything prioritize creating a peaceful environment for you at this sensitive period of my life. It can be too much for your pregnant friend seeing what’s to come for her. And you don’t have the emotional strength to ease the terror in her eyes. So, she shouldn’t visit you immediately after you give birth. Have the grandparents of your baby visit one set at a time. Don’t have them visit all at once because they will all have various opinions on how to take care of the baby and it will just cause tension between both families and you will be forced to take sides. Your partner’s goofy friend who has a good heart but always breaks something or says something inappropriate should not visit immediately after you have a baby. No matter how much your partner wants to show off his baby, let them wait.