Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja The Presidency has described as ‘crude’, speeches credited to Senate President Bukola Saraki who, recently, joined the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) with the sole ambition of running as the president of Nigeria. It appealed to all supporters of President Muhammadu Buhari to always put across their points of view in a decent language, describing Saraki as a ‘dangerous person’ who will go to any length to realise his ambition. It stated that the language employed by the PDP presidential aspirant could not even be used on a domestic help in worst case scenario. In a statement, the Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu said, “In response to the condemnable and extremely derogatory speeches by the PDP aspirant, we urge all Buhari supporters to display restraint in language and conduct and to always put across their points of view in a decent language. READ ALSO: Osinbajo due in Imo Saturday to commission projects “Throughout his political career, Sen. Saraki has shown that he is a very dangerous person who can go to any length to promote his personal interests. “The language of his campaign is such that cannot be used against a domestic help. “Is he just knowing that the President lacked vision? This is someone that the Senator had worked with very closely for more than three years. “Amazingly, he never said all that he is now saying against him. Rather, his word for and on the President were always respectful and reassuring. “That’s the man he called ‘My Father’, about him “there is no cause for alarm…a President who is healthy, witty and himself.” What then changed all of a sudden? “Is he saying these blatantly false and crude things against the President because he is gunning for the same office? “Could it be that he is targeting President Buhari because the party he just joined does not have any real issues to highlight? “Be that as it may, our appeal to our supporters is to ignore Saraki and any such politicians bent on lowering the quality of political discourse. Let them drown in their own waters.”