Builders and other stakeholders have praised the BlocMaster Cement, which was formally launched by Dangote Cement PLC, in Kano State, yesterday. They described BlocMaster Cement as extra strong and the best for block moulding in Nigeria. Before it was officially rolled out, yesterday, the innovative cement product had been adjudged ideal by the country’s engineers, builders and block makers, due to its rapid setting within an hour, its strength and top quality. Multitude of block-makers in attendance lauded the company’s innovate efforts and after a demonstrative test also confirmed its strength and asserted that surely, it is the best product for building construction for now, from the stable of Dangote cement. Speaking at the official unveiling of the cement yesterday, Kano Governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, urged Nigerians to patronise the new cement, to help minimise the menace of collapsed buildings in the country. The governor, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Usman Alhaji, commended the management of Dangote Group, and added that it has always been supportive in all sectors of the economy. Group Managing Director, Dangote Cement Plc, Joe Makoju, said the new brand is a product of years of deep research and that it has been tested and approved by builders nationwide. “This is a new era. This is a new quality. This is a product of research,” Mr. Makoju said. Also, Group Chief Marketing Officer of Dangote, Oare Ojeikere, said the new cement is “multi-purpose and very strong,” and urged Nigerians to adopt it for all construction purposes. Ojeikere said he is happy that hundreds of builders in Kano had used it before the launch. The immediate past chairman, Nigeria Institute of Building and Director Consultancy Services, Science and Technical Schools Board, Kano State, Abdullahi Alhassan SanSan, said he was elated because the new cement block will address the issue of collapsed building in the country. Also speaking at the event, Manager, Magina Blocks Industries, Kano, Nura Musa Yahayah, said he has used the cement block and can therefore recommend it to Nigerians. “I can recommend this product. I have personally used it and I am very convinced that it is the best for those of us who are in the business of cement moulding. It is strong and sets very fast. This is the product that we need at this time and we are grateful to the Management of Dangote Cement for giving us this product” Chairman, Kano state Concrete Block Makers and Allied Products Association, Alhaji Umar Faruk Musa, said the cement innovation will translate into more income for block makers and in the long run for Nigeria. He commended Aliko Dangote for yet another giant stride, a week after a flour brand was unveiled. 