Oshiomhole described Oyetola as a very intelligent person, adding that Osun would witness more development if he is elected governor. Clement Adeyi, Osogbo President Muhammadu Buhari has called on voters in the state to vote for the All Progressives Candidate (APC) candidate, Gboyega Oyetola, during the governorship election holding this Saturday. The president made the call yesterday in Osogbo during the APC’s final rally to draw support for its flag bearer. The president also told residents that the only way the state would not be returned to ‘the dark days of PDP’ is for them to vote massively for APC during the poll and return it to power and be sure of more deliveries of the dividends of democracy. Buhari stressed that Osun is an APC state and called on voters to continue supporting the party in order to keep it on the path of progress and change. He promised that his administration would show continued commitment to the completion of all the ongoing federal roads in the state and specifically mentioned Gbongan/Ibadan road, Ojikutu Bridge, Ejigbo and Ondo/Ife roads. He also restated his commitment to the fight against corruption. He said: “Nigeria must be free from corrupt and selfish leaders and our administration will continue to do that.” The APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, described Oyetola as a very intelligent person, adding
that Osun would witness more development if he is elected governor. He said: “In a time like this, we need people with brains and passion and not an apprentice. We need people of character, commitment and Oyetola possess all these qualities. We need intelligent people and not apprentice and that is where Oyetola has much advantage. I am convinced that workers in this state will not support any other person, expect Oyetola and we are sure of victory.” Former governor of Lagos State, Bola Tinubu, said members of the party are proud to testify to the development of the state by Governor Rauf Aregbesola. Tinubu added that with Aregbesola’s achievements, victory was sure for Oyetola.