Victor pleaded with President Muhammadu Buhari to intervene and ensure the rescue of Sister Leah Sharibu from the captivity of Boko Haram. Tony Iwuoma There is a bedlam in the air, giving the country political pollution of immense proportion. Everywhere you go, men of the night are busy plotting how to checkmate one another. We are up again in a charade that will leave the country N242 billion poorer… just to (s)elect a president, his deputy, 36 governors and their deputies, 109 senators and 3360 members of the House of Representatives. Is this exercise worth the effort? Why expend so much on exercise already primed to fail while over 150 million Nigerians suffer? As if accursed, people sell their votes, their destinies and those of posterity for pittance. It needed elections for Osun to remember that workers needed to be paid. So, they had the money all along but withheld it, causing death and suffering? Even our respectable Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo is traversing markets, sharing money or buying votes, alias tradermoni or whatever so called. It is all politricks. Meanwhile lawyers are lurking on the wings, waiting for their cut in twisted legal contests with predetermined outcome, depending on how deep your pockets. Unfortunately, in the feverish rush for acclaim and lucre, nobody remembers that there is a little girl holed up in a jungle with sharks and frankensteins called Boko Haram. I watched, listened to that video clip by my friend and brother, Victor Okhai. It was a soulful intervention wherein Victor pleaded with President Muhammadu Buhari to intervene and ensure the rescue of Sister Leah Sharibu from the captivity of Boko Haram. His pleas ripped my heart and I suddenly wished I were Buhari. I would give the central bank to secure not just the release of Leah, but also other unfortunate captives of these hoodlums, especially after hearing about the killing of the-25-year-old midwife, Saifura Khorsa, one of the three aid workers abducted earlier this year by the Boko Haram in Borno State. My immediate question was what works in the mind of these insurgents? What kind of demonic affliction could make them go after innocent blood in their mindless crusade? What was the offence of poor UN staff, who was putting her life on the line for the sake of others? I just wondered but the answers were hard in coming. Leah’s case is exceptional. Here was an innocent schoolgirl kidnapped alongside 109 others from their school in Dapchi, Yobe State, since February this year. All the other girls were released except Leah because she refused to renounce her Christian faith A lot of people had felt she could have done just that, secured her freedom and then reverting to her faith. However, they miss the point. You can never outwit the devil There was no guarantee that Leah would actually be spared if she had denied Jesus and would have been her fate in eternity? She would have been the ultimate loser. A lot of us have reproached the gospel by the way and manner we yield to Boko Haram daily. Boko Haram is the little pressure that pushes us into sin. When we walk in flagrant disobedience to our calling as believers, that is succumbing to Boko Haram and it apposite that we listen to the gospel of little Sister Leah today and damn satan and his fetid, yet varnished propositions. So, those who nurse this line of thought should rather weep for themselves than Leah. You may be asking where God is been since all these months Leah has been in Boko Haram confinement. Simple, God is where He was when Jesus Christ died for mankind. He could have saved His only begotten son but He allowed Him to drink the full cup of sorrow even unto death to accomplish His divine purpose. Likewise Leah. God has a purpose for her travails, to glorify Himself anyhow. Leah has become the conscience of a nation and a test case for this administration. Nigerians wait to see how our president responds to their pleas to intervene in the little girl’s case. One only hopes he does not disappoint. _______________________________________ I don’t know what my state governor, Owelle Rochas Okorocha, has done to people. They bluntly refuse to see his great strides in office and let him be. Okorocha brought the Vice President to the state but people said that the man came to commission halls in commemoration of Okorocha’s birthday. The governor wants his son-in-law to succeed him and hold the throne in trust for Okorocha Junior till he comes of age to continue the dynasty but people demur. So what if Uche Nwosu succeeds him? It is the young man’s fortune to have married a governor’s daughter. Nobody should begrudge him. The governor even gave them a ministry of happiness and couples fulfillment, yet they remain unfulfilled. What else do they want from the man? Even during my last trip to Abuja, I flew back to base in Air Imo, even though the aircraft was kind of hybrid, a little to Dana Air and a little to Air Imo like Ibrahim Babangida’s dual political ideology of the Social Democratic Party and National Republican Congress fame. But truly, I enjoyed the 45 minutes flight. My worry is that even the elements seem to have joined the conspiracy against our hardworking governor. Rainfall in Imo has abruptly gone acidic and has washed up all the well laid roads constructed by my governor, my governor despite not affecting the ones built by his predecessors. However, not to worry, Okorocha knows what to do. He has promised and as a promise keeper, he will accomplish in the remaining seven months of his eight years as governor to exceed his accomplishments in the past seven years, which evil people describe as years of the locusts. The governor needs to do this especially if his in-law is given the mandate as his successor. Those who insist that the governor’s insistence on Uche Nwosu is a bid to cover something are on their own. They are suffering from paranoia and illusion, as my governor, my governor is as noble as his ennobling thoughts no matter the ocean of acidic rain they invoke on Imo. Truth be told, all those prancing about making utopian promises may not be any better; that is the way they always bamboozle us and ride into office. They demonise their opponents and paint rosy pictures of tomorrow, only to be brazen in wayward plundering of the state. We have seen these garrulous political conmen before and so, my caveat to Ndimo: Voters beware! Our mumu don do (apologies Charles Oputa).