If you are desperately trying to counteract triggers like crying babies, side effects from medication, work stress, and late night parties, there are natural remedies you can drink that will help you get those much needed Zzzs. Milk Warm milk may not contain any particular amino acids or compounds that make you sleep, but the warmth that spreads through your belly has a calming effect, and there are theories that the temperature reminds us of the warm milk we were fed as infants. READ ALSO SUN GIRL: PROMISE Coconut Milk Ancient cultures in India have known for centuries that turmeric is a powerful spice that can help with inflammation, arthritis, and a host of other ailments. When combined with magnesium-rich coconut milk, it can be a delicious drink to help you sleep and wake up refreshed. This easy recipe for Golden Turmeric Milk can be made in seconds and includes just a few ingredients; it’s just what busy people need to have on hand. Coconut Water Not to be confused with coconut milk, which comes from the meat of the coconut, coconut water is slightly cloudy, mildly sweet, and is now bottled for ease of use; just be sure to buy it without any added sugar, preservatives, or coloring. You can drink it on its own or combine it with other fruits, like bananas, that are also high in potassium for a one-two punch of sleepy minerals at bedtime. Green Tea Green tea is one of the single best sources of L-theanine. Brew a pot, chill it, and add it to a honey-laced banana smoothie for a bedtime treat, or drink it hot and tuck into a good book for a night of deep, restful sleep. READ ALSO WHO enhances HIV treatment cascade to improve interventions in S. Sudan In China, some of the finest green teas are the Lung Ching teas, also known as dragonwell because
the tea leaves are wok-fired. For quality, ease of use and soothing aromas Mighty Leaf’s Dragonwell won’t let you down. Ovaltine Most people over 40 are familiar with Ovaltine, the old-time breakfast drink that got its start back in the early 1900s in Berne, Switzerland, but was also produced in England and the United States. This malt-based powder is used to make a drink by adding it to milk, but for an alternative to dairy, and a double whammy of magnesium, blend it with almond milk (almonds are high in magnesium), warm it up on the stove, and drink it before bedtime like a hot chocolate.