Alhassan also resigned her membership of the APC. She stated her disappointment at being disqualified from contesting as a Governorship aspirant Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja Minister of Women Affairs, Senator Aisha Alhassan, on Saturday, resigned as a minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and also quit her membership of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC). Alhassan, had in a video that surfaced online on September 5, 2017, backed Atiku Abubakar to take over the presidency from President Muhammadu Buhari in 2019. In the video she referred to the former Vice President as ‘next president come 2019.’ As part of a delegation that paid a courtesy visit to Atiku, the former Taraba state gubernatorial candidate, speaking in the Hausa language, had said, “Your excellency, our father the next president come 2019, God willing. In your presence are your people, your supporters who will continue supporting you till forever. “The people of Taraba state came to give their felicitations for the Sallah celebration and to rejoice with you on the achievement God has given you. For sure, God has already blessed you, this is like a reminder.” In her letter to the President dated 29th September, 2018, the former minister thanked Buhari for the opportunity to serve. Alhassan who had notified the President of her interest in contesting for the Governorship seat in her state, Taraba, was disqualified due to what the National Chairman of the APC, Mr. Adams Oshiomhole, said was due to her acts of indiscipline. She stated that all through her sojourn up to collection of form and mobilisation for the presidential and gubernatorial primaries, she kept the President in the know. She was however taken aback when she was disqualified by the party from contesting the and more troubled when no reason was given. According to her, it would be out of place for her to remain as a minister in the government when the party that formed the government does not find her qualified to be a governor, hence her decision to resign her post as a minister. Alhassan also resigned her membership of the party, APC. In the letter quitting the party, she stated her disappointment at being disqualified from contesting as a Governorship aspirant while no tangible reason was given by the party leadership. She claimed she felt betrayed and let down by the party. 