Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa Flood has hit additional 12 communities in five local government areas of Bayelsa State bringing the total number of communities taken over by flood to 16. On Sunday, four communities namely Asamabiri, Elemebiri, Ekperiware and Adagbabiri all in Sagbama Local Government Area have been affected by flood. However, in an update of the flood situation, the Bayelsa State Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Mr. Daniel Iworiso- Markson, the number of communities affected has risen to 16 with 12 communities in five local government areas now affected. According to him, latest report indicates that communities like Egwe-ama in Brass Local Government, Imiringi, Ayama, Otuobhi in Ogbia Local Government Area, Edwarie in Southern Ijaw Local Government Area and Trofani in Sagbama have all been hit by the natural disaster. READ ALSO: Post-harvest losses: Gov. Ortom seeks World Bank’s support Others, he said are Ekeremor main town, Abukoegede in Tamogbene in Ekeremor Local Government Area,  Kaiama and Sampou in Kolokuma/Opokuma Local Government Area and Anibeze Community in Sagbama Local Government Area. Iworiso- Markson, who urged the people not to panic as the government is fully committed to their plights and is doing everything to avoid a repeat of the 2012 flood incident, said the government is determined to ensure that no life would be lost in the flood disaster that is currently ravaging the state. He explained that the government is working round the clock to ensure that those whose houses have been submerged by the flood get immediate succour. Iworiso-Markson called on residents of the state who live in flood prone areas to work with the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) and other relevant agencies of government for immediate evacuation to temporal sites away from their homes. The Commissioner used the opportunity to again ask Bayelsans to call the emergency flood lines on 08025814636, 08110413567 and 09037582261 to report latest developments in their areas for quick intervention.