He indicated that the choice of governorship candidate of its main rival party would not be a hard nut for his party to crack in the forthcoming election Tunde Omolehin, Sokoto The State Chairman, People of Democratic Party, (PDP) in Sokoto State, Alhaji Ibrahim Milgoma, has said the party is ‘too happy’ with the planned choice of governorship candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in the state. He indicated that the choice of governorship candidate of its main rival party would not be a hard nut for his party to crack in the forthcoming governorship election. An impeccable source has confirmed that the APC party leadership in the state is set to unveil state deputy governor Alhaji Ahmad Aliyu as the party flag-bearer. The move, according to reports, was said to be a recant to a popular plan to field a former commissioner, Hon. Faruk Malami Yabo, as the party candidate. Milgoma stated this yesterday when he received a former governorship candidate under the defunct CPC, Hon. Dahiru Yusuf Yabo, who defected to the party with thousands of his supporters at the state presidential lodge. He acknowledged that the turn of events within the APC rank would no doubt ensure an easy coast to victory for his party governorship candidate, Hon. Manir Dan Iya in the 2019 elections. “We are too happy with the current turn of event among APC members in the state, especially in regard to whom gets the party’s ticket. It will definitely be in our favour… “In this case, we are already in touch with one of them, and he (APC aspirant) has agreed to join our party fold in the event of being denied the ticket. So, the victory will be easy for us in 2019,” Milgoma said. Earlier in his remarks, the new PDP chieftain, Yusuf Yabo, said he was in the party to ensure the success of its candidates in the 2019 general elections. Yabo, who said he was pleased with the party leadership in the state, also pledged his loyalty to state governor Alhaji Aminu Waziri Tambuwal as well as Alhaji Attahiru Bafarawa. He promised to mobilise people across the state to ensure the victory of the party’s presidential and governorship candidate.