Vivian Onyebukwa Speeds up healing Cocoa extracts have been trusted for their therapeutic and wound-healing properties in the manufacturing of natural medicinal products. The extracts help in preventing the development of various kinds of infections in the body. If consumed along with the appropriate medication, it has also been considered helpful in eradicating Helicobacter pylori bacteria from the body. Manages obesity A study has shown the potential benefits of cocoa in preventing high-fat-diet-induced obesity. Its intake helps in modulating lipid metabolism and reducing the synthesis and transport of fatty acids. It also improves thermogenesis, which is the mechanism of heat production in white adipose tissues and the liver. Improves cardiovascular health Cocoa powder is rich in flavonoids namely, procyanidin, catechin, and epicatechin, which have antioxidant properties and help in protecting the cells from damage while strengthening the heart. It prevents the formation of fatal blood clots, which can lead to stroke or cardiac failure. The flavonoids possess anti-platelet aggregating effects and modulate primary hemostasis, which is the measure of time blood takes to clot. This ultimately helps prevent atherosclerosis and thrombosis. READ ALSO Customs seizes cache of military hardware, tramadol Enhances mood Consuming cocoa powder has shown antidepressant-like effects on certain physiological processes. Its flavonols help enhance the mood, fight depression, and promote cognitive activities during persistent mental exertion. The presence of the neurochemical phenylethylamine in it also helps in enhancing feelings of contentment and promoting aphrodisiac effects. Treats constipation Consumption of cocoa husk exerts therapeutic effects in treating chronic constipation and bowel function diseases. According to a study done on pediatric patients, consumption of fibre-rich cocoa products resulted in faster colonic, rectal, and intestinal transit times. Regular consumption of cocoa enhances bowel function. This is because it helps to reduce bowel movement time, increases the frequency of bowel movements, and softens consistency of stool without inducing any oth- er side effects like gastrointestinal discomfort. Prevents cancer Cocoa has demonstrated beneficial effects in inhibiting the growth of cancer cells without affecting the growth of normal healthy cells. Studies have provided evidence regarding the chemopreventive and anti-proliferative qualities exerted by the flavonols and procyanidins present in it. These healing effects have proven extremely valuable in the treatment of various types of cancer, including colon cancer and prostate cancer.