Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has reassured Nigerians that the unity of the country remains his paramount objective and that of his government.
Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, in a statement said President Buhari gave the assurance when he had audience with a delegation of the Tijjaniya Movement led by Sheikh Muhammadu Mahi Ibrahim Inyass at the Presidential Villa, Friday.
The President said, ‘‘I will continue to do everything within my powers to unite Nigeria.’’ He commended the religious group for the peaceful conduct of their annual convention and urged them to bring the same to bear in promoting peace, unity and inter-religious harmony in Nigeria.
President Buhari also lauded the group for complementing government efforts in bringing social, economic development, and stability in the country by encouraging discipline, unity and spirituality among its members.
He reiterated his remarks on Thursday at the palace of Emir of Bauchi, Alhaji Rilwanu Suleiman Adamu, after he was presented with the Holy Quran, the President said the gift of Holy Quran is the highest anyone can receive and a reminder to seek and uphold justice in the service of the nation.
In his remarks, the leader of the group, Sheikh Inyass, told Buhari that members of the group would continue to support and appreciate his “noble agenda for the benefit of all Nigerians,” because they believe elected officials must be “accountable, incorruptible and God fearing.” “It has never been easy. Even our Holy Prophet (SWA) was never totally accepted in his lifetime. It was only after he had long gone, people saw the wisdom in his preaching and sacrifices. We, therefore, urge you not to relent in your efforts.
“Therefore, it is pertinent for you to note, Your Excellency, that majority of us are with your government and would ensure a total support for you in your effort to return Nigeria to the path of greater progress and development,” Sheikh Inyass said.