Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has said Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, needs the far-reaching support of the Federal Government and well-meaning international organisations to stem the tide of human trafficking. Obasanjo, who said this during a courtesy visit to Obaseki at the Government House, Benin City, yesterday,  stressed that the state government’s response to the worrying revelations of the sufferings of Nigerian migrants in Libya, especially youths from the state, was commendable. He said the governor has grown an impressive profile since coming into office, which has earned him accolades within and outside the country. The former president had earlier visited Iruekpen, where he checked on the family of his late wife, Stella. “The governor briefed me on his efforts to curb human trafficking. The unfortunate thing was that when I was dealing with this in the past, it was mainly young girls from this state that were trafficked, but now, I understand that young men are being trafficked too. This is rather unfortunate. “The assessment of the governor is that 65 per cent of victims of human trafficking out of Nigeria are from this state and he is doing something about it. This is also very heartening.” Obasanjo added that the state governor has been proactive in tackling the challenge. “Whatever he is doing, he needs the support of the federal government to be able to stem the tide of this nefarious trade…This must not be allowed to continue. The governor is going places and is doing a lot. “He admits there is a problem. When you have a problem, the first thing is to know that the problem is there and is yours and that you have a solution. He admits that most of these people are from Edo state. “There is nothing bad in admitting that the problem is yours and spearheading the solution. That is what he is doing. But, he cannot do it alone. He needs the backing and support of the federal Ggovernment and of well-meaning agencies, organisations and institutions from outside the country,” he added. In his response, Obaseki thanked Obasanjo for the visit, and noted that it presented an opportunity to share with him, efforts being made by the state government to deliver socio-economic development to the people.