…Questions government’s approach to security From: Judex Okoro, Calabar The Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), Cross River State branch, has withdrawn medical services in all hospitals, both private and public, in protest against incessant kidnapping of its members. The public and institutional hospitals closed down included University of Calabar Teaching Hospital (UCTH), the Federal Neuro Psychiatric Hospital, general hospitals, medical centers, mission hospitals and private clinics and hospitals. Unknown gunmen had, in the early hours of Tuesday, January 9, stormed the residence of one Dr. Emem Udoh of the Department of Pediatrics and Child Health UCTH, Calabar, and whisked him away to an undisclosed destination. In the process, her abductors made away with her vehicle, television set and mobile phones, leaving behind her 18-months-old baby in the care of her little niece. Investigations revealed that in the last one year, over nine medical doctors in the state had been abducted.  Piqued by this ugly development, the doctors, numbering over 100, on Wednesday, embarked on a peaceful protest to the governor’s office and major streets of Calabar chanting “we need freedom.” The doctors announced that any person who needed medical treatment should go to neighbouring states as they no longer feel safe attend to patients in the state until the state government wakes up to its responsibilities with regard to security. Speaking during the protest at governor’s office, the state chairman of the NMA, Dr. Effiong Mkpanam, vowed that unless the abducted doctor was released, all public, private and missionary hospitals in the state would be closed to patients.. According to him, “We are not safe and we want people to know that we cannot go to work because we are not safe.  We want unconditional release of Dr. Emem Udoh who is a nursing mother and until she is released, all the doctors in Cross River State will sit at home.  Anybody who wants medical treatment should go to the neighboring state,” Mkpanamsaid. Dr. Mkpanam decried the level of insecurity in the state, stating that the state was no longer safe for the citizenry as government was looking helpless. “Until Udoh is released, doctors have taken a decision to sit-at-home and this will last for the whole period that Dr. Emem Udoh will be held by the abductors.  We will not go back until government ensures the release of Udoh because it is the duty of government to protect the citizens,” he maintained. Also speaking, the Public Relations Officer of the NMA in the state, Dr. Ernest Ochang said: “All hospitals in the state including private and missionary hospitals will remain closed until Dr. Ekanem Udoh is released and any other day a doctor or physician is kidnapped, doctors will shut down the hospitals in the state summarily without any notification. “The Litmus test for any leader is security and safety of its citizens. But when we are not safe, we dare say that the government has failed the litmus test. “The government, however, has the litmus test of redeeming itself which is to bring Dr. Emem Udoh back. If Dr. Emem is brought back today, we will resume work today but until then anyone seeking medical attention in Cross River State should go to neighbouring states. “If after today Dr. Emem Udoh is not released, we will occupy government house, the Police Headquarters and the DSS office. We will sit there indefinitely until Dr. Emem is brought back”, he said. Speaking on behalf of the government, the Secretary to the State Government, Barr. Tina Agbor, said government was doing everything possible to secure the release of the abducted doctor, noting that the state governor was unhappy with the security situation in the state. In the words of Agbor, “It is unfortunate that soon after one of the doctors was released, another one was abducted, and this time, a woman.  I am a woman and right now, the State Security Adviser is on the streets trying to solve this problem.  You did not need to come here to remind us of our duty, because we are doing something about it,” she said.  