Uche Usim, Abuja Mr Oseni Elamah is the Executive Secretary, Joint Tax Board (JTB). In this interview, he speaks about the low level of tax payers in Nigeria, saying only 14 million out of 62 million workers pay tax. He also urged Nigerians to latch on to the huge benefits provided by the Voluntary Asset Income Declaration Scheme (VAIDS) to regularize their tax status. What is the operational philosophy of VAIDS?  The Voluntary Asset Income Declaration Scheme (VAIDS) was initiated by the Minister of Finance, Mrs Kemi Adeosun. It’s a Federal Government project. As you know, it was formally launched by the then Acting President, (now the Vice President) Professor Yemi Osinbajo and this is in line with the various provisions in the tax laws. What it has only done is to ensure there is more inclusiveness in the tax administration and create ease of compliance by a lot of Nigerians. It’s also helped to sensitize people, to enlighten them so that they know their rights under the law and take full advantage of it. I think it’s something that is very laudable and effective which will help create a more tax friendly environment.  What kind of taxes are under VAIDS and what are the benefits?  All taxes! Whether they are corporate taxes or individual taxes. All taxes that are provided for under the law. As you are aware, you can’t raise taxes without the instrumentality of the law. Every tax you see is a creation of provisions of the law and what differs is who collects what. The Federal Inland Revenue Service collects taxes relating to education tax, technology development levy etc. The States collect personal income tax , consumption tax. Local Government Areas also collect some form of taxes for birth registration, markets , motor parks.
The specific benefits are that: it will enable all tiers of government to bring more people into the tax net, and ensure that all income that are subject to the tax are brought to the tax net and taxed and enhance revenue of the various tiers of government. Most importantly, it also creates a kind of social contract between the government and the citizens because if they tax your income, you are demonstrating that you are a responsible citizen and there are certain basic social benefits that you are expecting government to provide such as security, good roads, good healthcare and generally good governance. This is to ensure that there’s welfare of the citizens and people can pursue their God-given talents and generate much income and give the government what is due to it.   We are in an age of technology and ICT actually is an enabler for tax collection, how rich are you in data collection? We have a reliable database that we trust the integrity of information that we get from it. If you do not have a reliable database, it’s a challenge. So, that is very critical and it is one of the responsibilities that we are saddled under the Tax Identification Number template. It is to ensure that there’s universality of information that is available to all tax authorities. Somebody moves from Lagos to sokoto, the person is identified through the system and so eliminates the incident of double or multiple taxation. So, it’s very critical and we are doing all that is possible for us to have that platform put in place. In that platform, you can exchange information with various other platforms and interrogate information from those platforms to get additional information. We have various tax duties with other countries and we share information with the aid of technology and using the Tax Identification Number.You can also trace the assets or income of Nigerians worldwide. What’s the level of compliance? The scheme (VAIDS) came into being in July 2017 and it’s supposed to end on the 31st of March this year. We are still collecting information as to who are those that are taking advantage of this scheme. Just yesterday in Lagos when we were leaving the Federal Inland Revenue retreat, we had requested the State to give us feedback because we normally collate returns from the States and I believe that by the end of this week, the returns will be in but with the feedback we are getting, we want them to be backed by statistics. The feedback is quite encouraging because what that has done is that it has created a window of opportunity for people to be able to come forward voluntarily and truly declare their income and save themselves the hassles of penalties and interests and in most cases criminal prosecution can come up for tax evasion. So, very soon, we will be in a position to give you some statistics to backup the level of compliance under this scheme. How can you effectively tax political heavyweights? The tax man is not a political agent. The tax man, by provisions of the law, has access to so many information and it’s a profession. So, the professional ethics also bring all levels of discipline on how you manage the information that is at your disposal. I think the perception has been because of the way the Voluntary Asset and Income Declaration Scheme was initiated and flagged off, it needed an executive order to say let us create this window and bring in the various authorities that have the power under the law to waive some portion of taxes to key into it. We are looking at previous non-compliance with the law because once you are afraid or unwilling to comply with the law, it amounts that you have evaded tax which is a criminal issue. We want to have an all-inclusive governance and allowing people take advantage of this opportunity so that we can begin to get the citizens to take ownership of the tax administration system. It doesn’t matter which government is in or out. If you check the provisions of the law, the tax man can carry out the tax investigation backward six years without the person who was there at that time. But what this scheme is doing is that previously, you have evaded taxes, we carried out the assessment but we will not apply the sanctions that would have been applicable because you evaded tax. We remove the issue of penalties, interests and not press criminal charges against you for tax evasion. So, I think people should take advantage of it. However, it’s not a new law, it’s riding under the provision of the various tax laws where this kind of windows are available. But again, we are doing it in a holistic manner at various levels of government. So, let us key into this scheme and see how we can use that to bring more people into the tax net.
The scheme says any person that comes under this declaration there’s no sanction. These laws are already there, if you don’t declare, the normal tax law provision apply. As per the rich and influential, I think that is just the normal perception that they won’t pay. They are complying. The rich are the most powerful but come to think of it, we are about 180 million people in Nigeria. But today, both corporate bodies and individuals that pay taxes as contained in our record are just about 14 million. The bank verification exercise revealed that individual account holders are over 30.5 million. Having accounts which means that they are economically active and viable to have money to put in the account. The National Identity Management Company’s database shows that about 22 million Nigerians that ought to be taxed. So, you find out that those who pay taxes are just few out of the entire working population. Today, about 62 million Nigerians are gainfully employed in one form or another but all you see only are those that are in formal sectors. So, I don’t know of any Nigerian that has been above the law and have not been brought to book. If there are, I think the members of the noble profession, the press should expose it. The difficulty we have always had is that we do not have clear way of identifying who should be paying what taxes. What we are only telling the members of the public is that the tax man today knows you beyond how you know yourself. Now, we have these information but we just want you to take advantage of this window. After 31st of March 2018, we begin to serve some love letters. So those hidden assets and income you hid somewhere we will bring them out. What are your targets? From this exercise and other similar exercises, what we are doing is to ensure that we have a reliable database. We expect that at the end of this exercise, we should have not less than 40 million Nigerians in the tax net and given the amount of assets and income we see, w expect huge revenue. Just yesterday, the Federal Inland Revenue revealed it collected taxes of N4.02 trillion in 2017, which is far beyond what was collected in 2016. In this year’s budget, they are anticipating to collect N6.4 trillion. From this exercise, we expect that 1 billion dollars which translates to about N320 billion will come at the Federal level. At the state level, the figures will be high. This is just tell you the so much possibilities that are there. We believe that there are states that can generate enough to sustain themselves outside the federal government allocation. When we make available these figures from last year, you will be able to have an insight as to what we are looking at this year and the years ahead. What should be Nigerians justification to pay tax since basic amenities are lacking? You don’t think government is providing enough security, but is that a justification for you to start committing crimes? That you do not have  the roads or water you expect, what we are saying as revenue administrators is that having put a government in place to exercise authority under law, we are also under the law to ensure that you make your own contribution by paying your taxes. Now having paid your taxes, there’s a social contract between the governed and the government. You can now demand for accountability having taken ownership of that. You can now ask questions. If you don’t pay your tax even, your right as a citizen is compromised. So, if you pay your taxes, then you can now ask questions because you put those who are there in government. It’s not for us tax administrators to give you reason why it didn’t happen. We are just playing our own role of ensuring we do what we are meant to do under the law. What is the cooperation with other countries like? I don’t want to be quoting statistics. I will like to quote them directly as they come to us because what we did was to not try to reinvent the wheel but let’s see what has worked in some other places and then go ahead to implement it here. But let’s also not forget that our environment, conditions of implementing laws differ from country to country. So, we must first of all look at the attitude of our people, mentality and how the government’s structure itself works. Like I said, these laws they have always been in place, what has been lacking is awareness on the political will to effectively enforce these laws. The thing is that you must get people to take ownership of the system and in taking ownership, people will not give what they don’t have. If they don’t have the information or knowledge, they can’t take ownership of the system. That’s why it’s very important that what you are helping us do will help to sensitize, educate and enlighten people. Let them know that their payment of taxes will help the social contract between the governed and the government and that it gives you certain level of rights where you can demand for accountability after those tax payers money have been utilized. 