Raphael Ede, Enugu As Nigerians get set for the next general election, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi Enugu State has called for increased awareness on voters’ education to enable residents fully participate in the ongoing Continuous Voter Registration (CVR) in the state. Governor Ugwuanyi made the appeal, in Enugu, during a solidarity visit by Awgu South Constituency Solidarity Movement under the leadership of Honorable Nelson Uduji. The governor said that massive participation of the electorate in the exercise as well as in the choice of their leaders was the only panacea for good governance. He commended members of the constituency for the support they had shown to his administration, adding that he was comfortable with the makeup of the representatives of the people from the area. He appealed to them to take the message to all corners of their constituency to ensure that they create awareness and make the people to be aware of the implications of participating in the CVR. Governor Ugwuanyi also called on those that had earlier registered to ensure that they picked up their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Speaking on behalf of the youths of Agwu, Izunna Okeke said that the people of the area had never had it so good in terms of infrastructure upgrade due to the effective representation they were enjoying. Okeke said that political leaders from the area, including the Deputy Senate President, Chief Ike Ekweremadu and Mr Toby Okechukwu, Honorable Nelson Uduji had showed uncommon zeal in bringing development to the area. He cited a 34km link road and the award of scholarship and bursary to students from the area as some of the gestures they had enjoyed from their leaders and representatives. He thanked the governor for his support to the member representing Awgu State Constituency in the state Assembly, Mr. Nelson Uduji, whom he said had done much for his people. He said that there existed a formidable partnership between the state government and other representatives of the people at various levels of government in the state and at the centre. “We are here to reaffirm our support for our political leaders. We are aware that the only way we can do this is by sensitizing our people to participate in the CVR. “What we have in the state which has trickled down to our constituency is a partnership that works. We are happy with our leaders and we have passed a vote of confidence on them,” Ogbonna said. Earlier in a town hall meeting, Uduji appealed to members of his constituency to take seriously the ongoing CVR. The lawmaker said that INEC had complained that the turnout for the exercise in the state was not too encouraging, adding that no fewer than 120,000 PVCs were yet to be collected. “The INEC complained to us and we have decided to go to the hinterlands to mobilise for the exercise. We want to work for the state and our constituency. “The only way to guarantee good governance is when you are armed with your PVC. All we want is for the people to be well informed on their civic responsibilities”, he said. Uduji said that members of his constituency were not unmindful of the various projects carried out by the state government in their area, adding that they would appreciate in due time.  Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 