From: BillyGraham Abel, Yola As part of the Nigerian Army’s Quick Impact Project in the north east, the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.Gen. Tukur Buratai, on New Year’s day, delivered assorted medical supplies and free medical treatment to over one thousand Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Fofure IDPs camp in Adamawa state. The army chuef, represented by the Brigade Commander, 23 Armoured Brigade, Brig. Gen. Muhammed Bello said, while the Nigerian Army remains committed to it’s duty of defending the nation, it has become imperative for the Chief of Army Staff to identify with the less privileged victims of insurgency. He said, “These people are away from their homes with little or nothing to take care of themselves. “We have come to felicilate with them on a new year celebration so that they can know they part of the society.”  The executive director of the Adamawa state primary healthcare development agency, Dr. Abdullahi Belel commended the military for the effort and says free Medical supplies would go a long way in making a difference in the life of the people who cannot afford basic health service. Dr. Belel said, “The gesture of the Nigerian army will go a long way in strengthening the delivery and provision of healthcare to IDPs in the state. “As a result of the upgrade made by the Chief of Army staff on the military medical facility in the state, we can now make referrals to the military hospital which is a big boost for primary healthcare in the state. “Since the insurgency, the military have been one of the basic frame of support to the primary healthcare agency which has been providing free medical services in local governments plagued by insurgency in the state helped by the military.” The representative of NEMA Sadiq Nuhu said, “The Director General of NEMA Engr. Maihaja is always full of praises for the Nigerian Army which has impacted positively on the lives of the IDPs. “The military has been involved in helping the IDPs with schools in IDPs camp run by the military among other interventions which has aid the work of agency in camps in the north east.” The Nigerian army also delivered assorted food items to orphans and helpless children at the Adamawa children’s home in Yola. 