From: Olanrewaju Lawal,Birnin-Kebbi Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State has sworn-in two new commissioners into the state’s executive council, having named three to join the state executive council. One of them three nominees was, however, absent at the swearing in ceremony. The new commissioners were to fill the Ministries of Women Affairs, Justice and Local government and Chieftaincy Affairs which have been operating with their Permanent Secretaries since inception of the administration. The three commissioners are Prof. Muktahri Umar Bunza from Bunza Local government Area, Hajiya Saratu Bawa from Danko -Wasagu and Hajiya Ramatu Guluma from Arugungu Local Government Area. One of the new commissioners, Hajiya Gulma, a lawyer was, however, absent at the ceremony and was expected to be sworn in later after her return from lesser Hajj in Saudi Arabia and may be posted to Ministry of Justice. Daily Sun gathered that one of the new cabinet members might be posted to Ministry of Justice to replace Barrister Rukkayat Ayuba who had resigned from the office since last year. The two commissioners were sworn-in by the state’s Acting Chief Judge Justice Asabe Karatu, who was represented by Higher Court Judge, Justice Samaila Rashid, and were administered the oath of office to.  The event, which was carried out before the commencement of the monthly Executive Council (FEC) meeting, was witnessed by other commissioners and relations of the appointees. Addressing them shortly after the swearing in, Governor Atiku Abubakar Bagudu urged the new commissioners to be honest and sincere when discharging their responsibilities. In the words of Governor Bagudu, “I appointed you people based on the merit. So, I want you to work for your people and make sure that the dividends of democracy has been given to the electorate. We now have three female commissioners in the cabinet; I think this is the highest in the country. “We already have 23 female councilors elected for political positions in the state,” he said. He enjoined the new commissioners to prepare for the challenges of working in an atmosphere of electioneering activities in this year. “There is no doubt to the fact that this year will be wrapped by electioneering activities, by we will not be distracted by the activities in our quest to make life better for our people, ” he said. Responding on behalf of her colleagues, Hajiya Saratu Bawa thanked the governor for appointing them as a commissioner and be part of his executive, while assuring him of their readiness support and cooperation in having a smooth governance.