•19 AVM, 32 others redeployed From Molly Kilete, Abuja The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) has released the postings and redeployment of 41 senior officers. They include 19 Air Vice Marshals, 14 Air Commodores, four Group Captains, two Wing Commanders and two Squadron Leaders. The postings and redeployment, according to the Director, Public Relations and Information, Olatokunbo Adesanya, came as a result of the recent promotion of senior NAF officers. Adesanya, in a statement gave the names of the newly redeployed officers as AVM Lawal Alao who is now the Commandant of the Armed Forces Command and Staff College, Jaji; Olusoji Awomodu, Director Manning & Establishments at the Defence Headquarters, Bello Garba, Chief of Logistics at Headquarters NAF and Mahmoud Ahmed, Chief of Administration. Also appointed are AVM Mohammed Suleiman, Senior Air Staff Officer (SASO)at HQ Tactical Air Command, Makurdi, Samuel Babalola, Director of Personnel Management at HQ NAF, Tunde Awoyoola, Deputy Chief of Defence Space Agency and Haruna Mohammed, Commandant Air Traffic Services Training Centre. He also said that AVM Sambo Usman is now the Group Managing Director of NAF Holding Company, Remigus Ekeh, Director of Evaluation at HQ NAF while Paul Dimfwina is Coordinator, Project Implementation and Monitoring Committee at HQ NAF, Ibukun Ojeyemi is now the SASO at Headquarters Air Training Command, Kaduna while Frank Oparah, is Director of Research at Defence Headquarters. Others are Peter Uzezi, Director, Earth Observation at Defence Space Agency, Olusegun Philips, Director of Museum and Archives at HQ NAF,  Chinwendu Onyike, Director of Technical Services at Defence Intelligence Agency and Emmanuel Wonah, SASO, HQ, Logistics Command, Ikeja, Abubakar Liman SASO, HQ Special Operations Command, Bauchi, Mahmud Madi, Director of Launch Services and Space Operations at Defence Space Agency and Air Commodore Noah Oyibo, SASO, Headquarters Ground Training Command, Enugu. Air Cdre Cosmas Ozouggwu takes over as Director of Production at HQ NAF while Air Cdre David Aluku becomes the Director of Civil Military Relations also at HQ NAF. Adesanya, in the statement said the new posting also brought about changes at the Unit level. “Some of the new Commanders and Commandants are Air Cdre Edward Adedokun, who is appointed as Commandant NAF Institute of Safety, Kaduna and Air Cdre Paul Masiyer, appointed as Commandant Military Training Centre, Kaduna. “In addition, Air Cdre Moses Onilede is to take over as Commander 631 Aircraft Maintenance Depot, Ikeja while Air Cdre Elijah Ebiowe is appointed as Commander 115 Special Operations Group, Port Harcourt. “The newly posted and redeployed senior officers are expected to take over their new offices not later than 2 January 2018,” he said. “Furthermore, the Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, has directed the newly appointed commanders of NAF field units to attend a workshop being organized at HQ NAF Abuja on 3 January 2018 for commanders. Command appointments in the NAF come with a lot of responsibilities, including the management of human and material resources. The workshop is therefore aimed at equipping/reminding commanders of their responsibilities and HQ NAF expectations in the conduct of their activities”. 