By Moshood Adebayo Lagos State Government yesterday assured owners of property affected by the construction of the Pen Cinema Flyover that they will be compensated in due course. In a statement by the Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Mr. Abiola Anifowoshe, the government debunked media reports that it was unnecessarily delaying compensation and maintained that those whose structures were demolished would be paid. Anifowoshe said the state government had already held a stakeholders’ meeting with the affected property owners during which details of the flyover project were presented to the them. “It was instructive that the stakeholders, at the meeting, welcomed the development and the Lagos State Government secured their buy-in. “The government representatives at the meeting also urged the people to submit all relevant documents showing proof of ownership. Our officials served the statutory notices and even gave more than enough time for the affected property owners to be aware of the removal. “Also, there were newspaper publications to that effect, stating government’s intention and expectations from the people. As a matter of fact, many of such had been submitted to my office and the compensation process has commenced fully,” the commissioner said. Alluding to the fact that the construction of the flyover was in a bid to bring about development and end the perennial traffic congestion in Agege axis, Anifowoshe said the government had to remove buildings belonging to the Lagos State Development Property Corporation (LSDPC) to give way for the project. “I want to use this opportunity to appeal to all residents of LSDPC in Agege that the Lagos State Government will compensate everyone involved and also to all other privately-owned property owners that the government understands their plight and is working to ensure that those affected are compensated,” he said. Emphasising that prompt submission of relevant documents would facilitate the process of payment, the commissioner urged affected property owners, who are yet to produce their planning documents, such as Certified Registered Title Document of Properties within the said Right of Way, Approved Building Plan Permit for the affected structures and any other relevant documents as proof of ownership, to do so without delay. “We like to urge them to submit their documents to the office of the commissioner, Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, Block 15, the Secretariat, Alausa, Ikeja, to ensure all affected owners are compensated appropriately. “The government, hereby,  reiterates its commitment towards ensuring that there is even development across the state. “By the time the Pen Cinema Flyover construction is completed, there will be traffic decongestion in the axis and this will enhance the socio-economic development of Agege and its environs,” Anifowoshe said. Meanwhile, Commissioner for Home Affairs, Dr. Abdul-Akeem Abdul-Lateef, has said the achievements of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode will campaign for him if he decides to run for second term Abdul-Lateef spoke at the weekend during the third Iju-Ishaga Health Day (IHD) in Ifako-Ijaiye Local Government Area of the state. 