• Buhari, Osibanjo, Saraki, others lay wreaths From Molly Kilete, Abuja and Timothy Olanrewaju, Maiduguri In celebration of the 2018 Armed Forces Remembrance Day, the military has released 244 people, including women and children who were detained in connection with Boko Haram in Borno State. Their release was based on the approval of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.Gen Tukur Buratai, Theatre Commander, Operation Lafiya Dole, Maj. Gen Rogers Nicholas announced yesterday at the Armed Forces Remembrance Day Celebration at Maimalari Cantonement Military Cemetary, Maiduguri. The detainees included 56 adult female, 118 adult male, 19 under-aged and 51 children. “After screening of the detainees, the military is glad to release a total of 244 repentant Boko Haram to the Borno State government,” General Nicholas said when he handed them over. He said the detainees had been screened and undergone counselling but did not give further details of the circumstances which led to their release. On his part, Borno State Governor, Kashim Shettima, commended the military and army chief for the gesture and added that commemoration of the Armed Forces Day is a  sad reminder of officers and men who paid supreme price to keep the nation together. He said the government and people of Borno appreciate the efforts of the Nigerian military in decimating Boko Haram and ensuring the people enjoy relative peace. In Abuja,  the ceremony locked off with wreath-laying by president Muhammadu Buhari, at the National Cenotaph. The ceremony kicked off at about 10:00am, with the president’s arrival, escorted by the Pipers Band from the Guards Brigade of the Nigerian Army. Bihari was received by the Brigade Commander, Major-General Musa Yusuf. Prayers were offered for the repose of the souls of fallen heroes by the Director, Chaplain Services of the Nigerian Air Force, Wing Commander Kwase and the Director, Islamic Services of the army, Brigadier-General Mustapha, who also prayed for the peace, stability of the country. Thereafter, Buhari  took the lead to lay the first wreath, followed by his deputy, Professor Yemi Osibanjo. They were followed by Senate President, Bukola Saraki, Speaker Yakubu Dogara and the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Walter Onnoghen. Others who also laid wreaths were the minister of Defence, Mansur Dan-Ali, his Federal Capital Territory counterpart, Musa Bello, the Chief of Defence staff, General Gabriel Olonisakin, Chief of army staff, a Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai, chief of naval staff Vice admiral Ibok Etete-Ibas, chief of air staff, Air Marshall Sadiq Abubakar, the inspector general of police Ibrahim Idris, dean of the diplomat corps and Cameron ambassador to Nigeria. Climax of the occasion was the laying of wreath Mrs. Mary Alechenu, widow of a soldier killed by Boko Haram in the North East, in 2015. Popularly known as the ‘youngest widow in the barracks,’ Mrs Alechenu, who was reportedly pregnant when her husband was killed, gave birth to a son, eight months after. Highlights of the event was the one minute silence observed for the fallen heroes, firing of the volley, signing of the anniversary register by the president, who later released some pigeons which signified peace, hope and unity for Nigeria. The Armed Forces Remembrance Day celebrates officers and soldiers who fought and died for the territorial integrity of Nigeria. 