Dear Dr, I’m having severe cold with pain all over my body, particularly, the waist, hip bone, knees, sternum, including my ribs. At times, it’s in my lungs.
In addition, I have a sour taste in my mouth with headache from the back and eye aches. I sweat a lot, especially when I sleep, waking up with the whole bed drenched, as well as my pajamas.
My appetite could be better. I am 63 years of age. I’ve just recently treated malaria with the recommended Lumefantrine Artemeter combination. I do not have an idea why I am so unwell. I am miserable and don’t know what to do.
Please help me
– Shamsideen Saleh, Sokoto Dear Shamsideen,
The commonest cause of your symptoms in this clime is half–treated malaria. I use Piperaquine or Amodiaquine and Artemisinine to treat malaria. I have discovered some drugs are associated with plenty of cases, like yours, where malaria gets only half-treated and thus returns within a fortnight or so. I think you have chronic malaria with some amount of enteric fever (salmonellosis) into the bargain.
You could also have some amount of elderly pneumonia. Malaria’s symptoms can become very much milder than the usual high fever, especially with patients in highly endemic areas like Nigeria, especially with the older generation who have had a long time since birth to develop their immunity.
The body pains, especially pains in the joints, also can make the care-giver think of arthritis. A safe rule is to treat every arthritis sufferer first for malaria and to check them all over to rule out elderly pneumonia, whose presentation, also, can be much milder than classical. You should see a good doctor who would order tests, like the Widal, for you to confirm or deny the suspicion of salmonellosis or typhoid and get treated with the relevant antibiotics. There are also wonderful natural cures and remedies for both typhoid and malaria (together) which you can use and both your malaria and typhoid will disappear. Just call the help-line. How can I stop climaxing before him?
Good day Doc, I have read a lot about your good works in Daily Sun. I am a woman in my forties. Any time I have sex with my partner, I will be the first to reach orgasm in less than five minutes and he always complains about it. He said it was not good for a woman to reach organsm before the man, that we are supposes to do it at the same. I don’t know the cause.
Please can you help me out by finding solution to this?.
– Amotsule Mimi, Sapele Dear Mimi, You do not need to stop climaxing so fast; you need to climax more times than one; that is all!!! Your man needs plenty of sex education. You obviously do, too. If the man comes to orgasm before the woman, this is not good; it is not the best because he cannot continue; he is limp; his organ cannot continue the action; he leaves her high and dry.
But like your partner said, if they arrive at orgasm together, yes, that is best and we all must agree on that. But if the woman climaxes before the man, like in your case, it is a great plus for the man. All he needs to do is give her a second climax; may be a third; maybe a fourth orgasm; because women are capable of being multi-orgasmic where men are, generally, not. That is all. He needs to learn what to do and how to do it. He should not be condemning you when he should be jumping up at his great fortune; okay? You have no problem. Let anyone who is interested in making their woman multi-orgasmic send for the report from us to
betterloverz@yahoo.com or
docmarrylove@yahoo.com. Internal heat
Good day Doc, I have been following up with some of the problems people present to you in your health column in The Sun. And so many of them have thanked you for your answer and solution to them with regards to their health problem.
Please doctor, I will like to know what causes internal body heat, especially after sex? I have gone through AIDS test and its negative. I have only one sex partner. I do not smoke nor drink. Am just 28 and am being bothered. I will be glad if you send a piece of your reply to my mail box.
– Tooya Tant’Oloun, Abeokuta, Ogun State. Dear Tooya, Let me first of all congratulate you that you have only one partner and you are HIV negative. Let me also advise that your best bet is to marry as soon as possible so that you can have the safest sex. We do not know what your only one partner gets up to behind your back. Now, to your main query. The key to answering you satisfactorily is found in the phrase: “especially after sex,” which means not always after sex but many times after sex. So, we see that, very likely, it has nothing to do with the sex but it’s just that it has happened that way in the past.
Internal heat must be defined as the feeling of hotness in the body without any evidence of the thermometer recording. Have you taken your temperature to find out what it says at such times or you simply assumed it would read? If you feel hot and the thermometer is reading and recording increases in your temperature, that is not internal heat; it is fever. If however, you feel hot without thermometer evidence, what you have, truly, is internal heat.
Internal heat is simply another of the possible manifestations of Somatisation Syndrome, a common complaint in cases of anxiety neurosis in these parts. Somatisation occurs this way – when your mind is under stress – maybe there are conflicts, worries and uncertainties that bother you but you suppress in your mind, the mind uses the avenue of these feelings – such as internal heat; crawling sensation; thumping or pulsating sensation, things moving all over the body, and things jumping from one part of the body to the other – to make you sit up and realise there is something wrong that you need to correct. This is the Somatisation Syndrome – patients whose actual diagnosis is Anxiety Neurosis manifesting and signaling their psychological ill-health as bodily symptoms when there is absolutely nothing wrong with their bodies.
These symptoms are real and treatable (in this context this means we can give you medicines that will remove them) but they are not because the body is malfunctioning; it is because the mind is facing some hidden challenges. See a psychologist/psychiatrist, who will treat you according to findings as to what is the cause or root – in your mind, of course – of the feeling of heat without any temperature rise. If, however, it is ONLY after sex with the lady you feel the heat; that’s another kettle of fish. Send to me if it is so, and we’ll cross that bridge when we get there. Spiritually inflicted conditions and cure?
Dear Dr,
I have read in your column before, how you categorise some conditions as Spiritually Inflicted Diseases (SIDE). What do you mean and how does one diagnose such? Any treatment?
– Jamil Jalingo, Abuja Dear Jamil,
Indeed, there are conditions that have spiritual sources and in a nutshell they generally do not resolve without spiritual intervention such as prayers, fasting, giving, repentance, asking forgiveness, deliverance, restitution etc. Diagnosis is generally by the fact of intractability- that is the inability to resolve them with physical or psychological treatment only; dreams that are scary or what is called nightmares, inability to sleep; panic attacks or palpitations and corroboratory strange experiences. Too many times, these conditions are associated with terminal diseases meaning that if care is not taken, death is around the corner. We have good experience in handling such conditions; so feel free to call for help on the help-lines 