Any football team that lacks discipline, respect for constituted authority, rules and regulations and above all hope in the Almighty God and His capabilities cannot go far
“ For you to succeed, you need to be very disciplined and level headed, you must obey and play according to the rules and regulations of the sport and most importantly should have the fear God and hope in His limitless capabilities”
That was Apostle G. Umanah, Area Superintendent of The Apostolic Church, Ukana Onuk Area Headqurters, Ikot Ekpene Field Sunday, when the Akwa United Football Club went for Thanksgiving and to dedicate the team to God in preparation for the start of the new season.
Taking his sermon from Romans 10:11 Pastor Umanah said he was delighted to see the team return to thank God for their exploits in the 2017 season, and that whosoever believeth in God shall not be ashamed.
“ I am so delighted to have heard the Chairman of the club ascribe the success of his team to God. I remember that before the start of the just concluded season, you came here and handed this team over to God and God promised you victory. All of you here are living witnesses to what God did for His name sake.
“ We told you last year that it will not be easy. We said you will pass through a lot of trials and temptations but that at the end you will triumph and it has come to pass. With the wisdom that you have to come back and thank God, and rededicate the club to Him, I prophesy that you will do exploits this year. Go and conquer” The man of God declared.
In his speech, the state sports commissioner Sir Monday Ebong Uko gave thanks to God for a season that had a lot of positives since the club was formed twenty years ago.
He recounted instances in the season that the club encountered challenges yet God triumphed even at a time that they had lost hope, particularly during the Aiteo Cup final when it seemed as if all was lost, only for the club to gain the upper hand and the slot of representing the country in the continent.