Segun Adio and Tokunbo David Nigeria’s foremost newspaper genre, The Sun newspaper, will on Friday, January 19, holds its Annual Thanksgivings Service/Award Ceremony. The event is currently underway. The 2017 Annaul Thanksgivings Service has started in earnest as Sun Christian Fellowship’s “Bishop Leo” lead in worship and prayers at 10:22a.m. Guest Speaker, Pastor Ituah Ighodalo just arrived. Escorted to high table by entire management. Praise and Worship still on going. At 10:51, Pastor Ighodalo was acknowledged by the Master of Ceremony, while The Sun Christian fellowship led the first Hymn: ‘Oh God Our Help in Ages Past’. First First Bible was by Managing Director/EIC, Eric Osagie which he read from Lamentations 3:21-25, while the Deputy Managing Director, Steve Nwosu, also read the second Bible reading from Luke 12:22-30. Its testimony time and Deputy Managing Director, Steve Nwosu, while giving his testimony to the mightiness of God on his household recalled the drama and miraculous recovery of his daughter from the hands of dare-devil kidnappers at the Turkish International School in 2017. He was full of praises to God and the management and entire staff of the Sun for their prayers, show of love and solidarity. The Second Hymn, ‘Great is The Faithfulness’ is being rendered at the moment. In his welcome address, Mr. Osagie welcomed staff to annual event which had been on going for 15 years now. While thanking God that the company was able to whether the storm these past 15 years, Mr. Osagie, however, expressed hope that 2018 would be year of freedom and a year of financial release for everyone in ‘The Sun family’. He also assures staff of company support in New Year. He maintained that though management has not met all expectations, he commended staff for remaining resolute and being together as one family despite the challenges. He nonetheless  urged staff to rededicate themselves to company ideals: hard work and to never ever give up. He spoke about the naysayers where the Company started in 2003 where people said it could not be done. Yet The Sun has gone strong for 15 years. He praised and encouraged more team spirit and togetherness from staff. “As long as God gives us the wherewithal, the company will fulfill all its promises to staff (including many incentives like 13th month bonus, profit sharing, and so forth). When he took to the podium , Pastor Ighodalo’s speech with the theme ‘God is Faithful’ said ‘God will keep his covenant with us and our families.’ Quoting 1 Corinthians 10:13, Pastor Ighodalo talks about God forgiving our sins and shortcomings. Numbers 23:19: ‘God does not lie, He fulfils His promises’, saying in spite of our perils, trials, and challenges Pastor assures that God is faithful. “God has not abandoned us, pastor reassures; that we are still standing in spite of all our difficulties, because God has been faithful. God is dependable, supportive, loyal, trusted, constant and reliable. God is committed to us,” he said. He spoke about God being unchanging in regards to his vows to uphold us all. He prayed that God will be faithful to The Sun Newspaper. The renowned pastor then rained prayers unto The Sun Newspaper and its staff. After Pastor Ighodalo rained prayers on the company and its staff, he took permission off the programme to attend to other ecclesiastical matters elsewhere and he was seen off by the MD and DMD. It’s now time for award presentation to deserving individuals.The deserving awardees included: 