By Adewale Sanyolu The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) has said that the gas plant involved in a fire incident on Monday, Second Coming Nigeria Limited, located in Magodo, Lagos, got its operational licence in 1996 prior to when the area opened up.
DPR Director, Mr. Mordecai Ladan, stated this during an inspection visit to the premises of the gas plant in Lagos, yesterday.
“There was no structure here when the plant was given licence for operation in 1996. We are saying this to let the people know that the facility had been located here before the residents started building their houses. The whole place was bushy when they started operation. It wasn’t like this before,” he said.
Ladan said DPR has equally commenced an inquest to ascertain the remote and immediate causes of the fire. He said all parties involved in the incident would be invited for preliminary interrogation into what transpired in a bid to guide the department in its final report.
He disclosed that the inquest, which would commence immediately, is expected to last for three weeks, after which a report of its findings is expected to be released.
“Most times, gas plant fires are as a result of poor management attitude or lack of corrective measures. Like I stated earlier, the inquest will determine the cause of the incident and what next to do. The department, as part of its routine safety campaign, usually holds quarterly interactive forum with the association of cooking gas plants owners to train them on fire prevention, especially during hazy and adverse weather conditions,’’ he said.
On the cause of the incident, a director of the gas plant, Mr. Ifenna Okeke, said the incident was as a result of gas leakage from one of the company’s trucks.
“On Monday morning around 7am, we discovered a gas leakage from one of the company’s trucks. On noticing this anomally, the Operations Manager immediately turned on all the company’s fire hydrants and subsequently alerted the Fire Service on the leakage.
The firemen came, put their firefighter’s motor at alert and started stopping vehicles plying the road because the gas leakage had circulated by that time.
Suddenly, a Golf car driver who had been warned not to start his car, switched on the engine and the next thing we heard was a loud bang, which threw up everywhere in flames.
“Regrettably, the two persons that died as a result of the incident remained unknown because none of our workers was within the premises,’’ he said. 