(NAN) Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt. Gen. Yusuf Buratai, declared Sunday that Boko Haram insurgents have been defeated by troops in the northeast. Buratai made the declaration at a special service to commemorate the 2018 Armed Forces Remembrance Day, held at ST Bartholomew’s Military Church, Maimalari Cantonment, Maiduguri. Buratai, represented by Maj.-Gen. David Ahmadu, the Chief of Training and Operations, Army Headquarters, disclosed that the military has won the war against insurgency. He revealed that the military had recorded successes in the intensified offensive, routed and defeated the insurgents, adding that the military was committed to the restoration of peace to the region. Buratai decried the insurgents recruitment of the teeming unemployed youths that lack morality and are illiterates in their fight. The Army chief admonished parents to ensure proper moral upbringing of their wards in order to protect them from being used by bad elements to foment troubles and disrupt peace in society. “I want to assure you without mincing words that the Boko Haram terrorists have been defeated; all we are fighting for now is the peace in the northeast. “Character begins from home; if the children or the youth do not listen to their parents then there is problem. It is the responsibilities of parents to ensure that they disciplined their children. “And the children too must have something to give back by being disciplined, educated, try to behave well wherever they go and without being deceived by anyone to do what is bad,” Buratai said. He stressed the commitment of the military in ending the insurgency, protecting lives and property and securing the nation’s territorial integrity. He noted that the Nigerian Army had contributed to peace-building in various countries around the world, including in the African sub-region. Buratai added that the sacrifices of fallen heroes would be immortalised by ensuring unity, peace and stability in the country. He charged soldiers not to allow themselves to be hoodwinked by self-seeking individuals who promote hate speech, and to remain dedicated and professional in the discharge of their duties. While commending President Muhamadu Buhari over his support for the military, General Buratai tasked commanders to ensure effective use of equipment and logistics provided to aid the successful completion of the counter-insurgency. Also, Maj.-Gen. Rogers Nicholas, Theatre Commander, Operation Lafiya Dole, disclosed that the troops had recorded significant success in various operations against insurgents in Sambisa Forest and the Lake Chad region in the past few days. Nicholas assured that the counter-insurgency would soon be concluded. Highlights of the event included a special prayer session for fallen warriors, orphans and widows as well as prayers for the nation and success of Operation Lafiya Dole, NAN reports.  In recent days, Mamman Nur, a major factional leader of the terror group, was wounded, many insurgents killed, with thousands captured; while several others fled the onslaught on their enclaves in Sambisa Forest and the Lake Chad region. Hundreds of civilians have also freed by troops from the terrorists’ captivity in the ongoing operation of the past one week. 