By Solape Lawal-Soalrin A bundle of talent, Faith Obilor Friday is a testimony to the abundance of talented footballers Nigeria has. Lacing his boots for HJK, holders of the Finnish league title and FA Cup, the Abia State born defender is a player soccer loving fans and the coaching staff of the Super Eagles should look out for.
From obscurity to prominence, Obilor has shown that hardwork and dedication pays. The 23 year old opened up to Daily Sunsports on his sojourn to stardom, early childhood, challenges and Super Eagles ambitions. Nigerians would love to know you. Kindly introduce yourself?
I am Faith Obilor Friday, hails from Abia State, a footballer, currently playing in the Finnish topflight with HJK. For every journey, there is always a step. Can you tell us how it started?
Well, like you rightly said ‘every journey begins with a step’ and mine can’t be an exemption.  I grew up in Aba, and for every young boy;at least average Nigerian boy, there is an unhidden passion for football. So, as a young boy growing up, football was like an addiction sort of. I loved the sport and fortunately, Obiaba football academy provided that foundation to showcase my talent.
The academy played an important role in my football development. And am grateful. How was the learning curve for you as a player trying to find his feet?
It wasn’t easy. In life I guess everything has its low points. And for a footballer trying to carve a career for yourself is no easy feat. It requires dedication, hard-work and most of all prayer. But, like I said earlier it wasn’t easy, however, if you are good enough, and you are focused, I tell you the sky is the limit. You said it wasn’t easy. Would love to know how your early childhood was?
Yes, it wasn’t easy. And as regards my growing up, well, it wasn’t rosy. I am the first son out of five siblings;made up of two boys and three girls.
Coming from an humble background, life was a little bit tough but, our parents tried their best. However, today am grateful to God for putting me in a position to make life more comfortable for my family.
We all have different stories to tell you know but, am grateful that mine is now in the past. Were your parents in support of your choice to stick to football?
Yes, they did. I never had problems with my parents over playing football. You know, I guess besides the prospect in the sport, my parents were just happy with the fact that football sort of engaged my mind-no time for naughty exuberances you know. Let’s talk about your playing CV. Which club did you play for locally before moving abroad?
I must confess, I only played Nigeria Pro one league with Babanawa FC in Kwara before moving abroad. Wow, impressive. A very short spell locally and you got offers abroad. That means you are good?
Well, if you say so (Laughs) So fill us in on your foreign adventure?
After I left Babanawa, I went to Amazulu in South Africa’s ABSA premiership but, it wasn’t successful. Hence, I left for Rops, and after a brief spell I joined Inter Turku before finally inking a deal with HJK (all Finnish clubs) which is the biggest club in the scandinavian country. You have been privileged to play both locally and internationally. What’s the difference?
The differences are numerous. I can’t start reeling them out. However, I can only tell you that they are way ahead of us in organisation, facilities, and welfare. I must confess the facilities are awesome. You can’t just help but, fall in love with it. So have you won any titles with HJK?
Yes, we are the reigning FA Cup champions and league winners. You are a centre back. Can you tell us your strengths?
Defending is an herculean task. You need to add a lil’bit of attacking flair to your game you know; especially in the passing aspect and ability to play out from the rear. Not all defenders can do it, but the likes of Bonucci, Pique, Ramos have shown they are comfortable on the ball and can create attacking threats from the rear while also carrying out their primary responsibilities as defenders.
I believe I have those abilities and really it could only get better because am young and am still learning. Do you have plans to move to more competitive leagues?
Yes, am exploring my options. Finland is a learning curve and am enjoying it. However, am considering offers from Italy, Germany and Spain. Moving to those leagues is a test that am braced up for and my agent is in charge of the whole situation. The Eagles are heading to Russia. Do you still habour any hope of joining the Eagles train to Russia?
Optimism is the key. I strongly believe that I can gatecrash the Eagles party to the World Cup. If Brian Idowu could seize the opportunity Gerhot Rohr gave him in the Argentina friendly why can’t I do the same too? It would be nice to give the coach a selection headache (laughs). Who are your role models locally and internationally?
I love Mikel Obi. His composure on the ball, his physicality and his passes makes him my favourite Nigerian player while on the foreign scene, I prefer Sergio Ramos. The Real star is a monster. I love his attitude on the pitch. If you were not a footballer what would you have been?
Well if I wasn’t playing football guess I would have ended up being a lawyer. 