From Oluseye Ojo, Ibadan The traditional rulers and people of Owu, Abeokuta, Ogun State, on Saturday, December 16, 2017, converged on Cultural Centre, Ibadan, Oyo State, for the 26th national convention of the Owu nation. It was organised by Royal Union of Owu People (RUOP), hitherto known as National Movement of Owu People (NAMOP) and National Council of Owu People (NACOP). Owu has settlements throughout Yoruba land extending to the Republic of Benin.
The convention affords all Owu natives, home and abroad, the opportunity to come together to discuss common problems and issues that will further promote Owu heritage. Chairman, Supreme Council of Owu Obas, Oba Olusanya Dosunmu, the Olowu of Owu Abeokuta, led an array of prominent kings of Owu settlements to the convention. Former President Olusegun Obasanjo; former governor of Osun State, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola; former Minister of Special Duties, Elder Wole Oyelese; Senator Lekan Mustapha and sons and daughters of Owu were also in attendance.
Mogaji Olugbode and head of Owu Ibadan, Chief Tesleem Olugbode, emphasised the need for unity among the Owu people: “I use this opportunity to call on all Owu indigenes, home and abroad, that we should always strive for growth and development of this great kingdom – Owu. As we all know that it requires unity and togetherness to defend the legacy handed over to us by our ancestors, we must work together for its development and the time is now.”
Oba Dosumu rejoiced with the people and appreciated God for sparing their lives to witness the convention. National president of RUOP, Major Gen Ekundayo Opaleye (retd), said: “This is neither a rebirth, nor rejuvenation, but a kind of resurgence through inspiration, determination and brotherliness, only known to Owu, which in effect empower and adequately equip the Owu nation. Our bundle of energy should be that of liveliness, spirited vigour and dynamism that speak of push, yet flexible.”
The renaissance, according to him, is about determination, flexibility and unity, adding that these could be achieved if Owu people can seriously and loyally address them timely. He said the Owu people should “spare a thought and look at the mystery of Owu migration, from around the River Niger area, to five states in Nigeria, and two other states in West Africa, not to talk about the exploits of the Owu in other parts of the world like United Kingdom and United States of America. Owu always strives for the best.”
He noted that slanders, envies, outright discriminations or any vicissitudes have always toughened and made Owu more effervescent to God’s glory, saying the quality has always been evident in the life of every Owu native.
Moshood Tomori who delivered a lecture entitled: “Impact of Owu in Ibadanland.” He described Owu as a republic of warriors, saying the origin of some notable warriors of Ibadan could be traced to Owu. He specifically mentioned Baale Oyesile Olugbode, who was the Olubadan from 1851 to 1864, adding that Olugbode introduced the Iyalode system to Ibadan.
He also mentioned the exploits of former warriors of Ibadan including Balogun Ibikunle, Basorun Ogunmola, and Oyewusi, who contributed significantly to the fame of Ibadan, but had Owu origin:
“The Owu people in Ibadan should re-orientate the Ibadan people about the ways and principles of Owu.
“Owu community should also identify themselves within Ibadan. They should also promote historic sites and cultural heritage such as Oke-Ibadan festival, Ogunmola statue, and so on.”
Obasanjo, who is the Balogun of Owu (Prime Minister of Owu Kingdom), enjoined Owu people and Yoruba to stand for unity, adding that RUOP was estsblished to foster unity and assist the underprivileged among Owu people and Yoruba in general:
“We should know one another, come together, and help the needy among us like awards of scholarships. We should always look for one another. Let us look for where the Owu are.
“Someone said the Owu might be in Ekiti and we might not know. Let us look for them, they said they might be in Ondo, Benin or Togo, let us look for them.
“We can’t be too much and our fathers never lost one another. If we see anyone that says he is from Owu and also behaves like an Owu person, and not like a bastard, let us accept such person.” 