From Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja Wife of the President, Mrs. Ai- sha Buhari has spoken for the first time since her son, Yusuf, had a motorbike accident that left him with a head injury and broken limb on December 26, 2017 at Gwarimpa, Abuja. Yusuf has been receiving treatment at Cedarcrest Hos- pital, located in Gudu District, Abuja, where dignitaries have been pouring in to sympathise with the first family over the incident. Presidential Villa staff as well as other dignitaries to the Villa have also held prayer sessions for Yusuf’s quick recovery. In a “thank you” message she posted on her verified Ins- tagram page, @aishambuhari, Mrs Buhari thanked all Nige- rians for their prayers and the medical team who she said en- sured that Yusuf remains stable while receiving treatment. She also disclosed that the Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole, is chairing the medi- cal team attending to her son. The message read, “On be- half of my family, I will like to thank well-meaning Nigeri- ans for their prayers in the past weeks. “Special thanks to the team of doctors and specialists who have worked tirelessly to en- sure that my son, Yusuf remains stable, most especially Nurse Eze Doris Eberechukwu of Nisa Premier; the medical team chaired by the Honourable Min- ister of Health, Prof. Isaac Fol- orunsho Adewole; the team of neurosurgeons, Prof. Temitayo Sokunbi; Prof. B.B. Shehu; Dr. Biodun Ogunbo and Assistant Prof. M.Raji Mahmud; the team of orthopaedic surgeons, Dr. Felix Ogedengbe and Dr. Akinola; the intensivists, Dr. Simon Esangbedo; the personal physician to the President, Dr. Suhayb Sanusi; my personal physician, Dr. M. Kamal and the nurses have all ensured that he remains stable while receiv- ing treatment. “Also many thanks to Dr. Jaf Momoh, CMD of National Hospital Abuja and his team for their continuous support.” The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, had in a statement said the President’s son had undergone a success- ful surgery and was in a stable state.  