• Says no justification for killings President Muhammadu Buhari has vowed that his administration would recover every money looted from the public treasury. He also promised to bring perpetrators of mayhem across the country to book. A statement by the Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, said the president spoke at separate meetings with the Qadiriyya Muslim Movement in Africa and the Izalatul-Bid’a-Wa-Iqamatus-Sunnah at the State House in Abuja, yesterday. Buhari told the delegation that his political party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) campaigned on three issues, noting that his government had been consistent in ensuring that it provided adequate security, fight corruption and stimulate the economy for creation of jobs. “Our priority is to also ensure that everyone in the country has something to eat. We are really concerned about the underprivileged. Graciously, God has been hearing our prayers. In the past two years, we have had bountiful harvest due to favourable conditions. All over the country, we have reports of farmers posting good harvests. “Justice will be done to all in the war against corruption. As religious leaders, I urge you to reach backwards to your followers to respect the rights of others. Those that stole from the public can no longer sleep well in the country today. When they run abroad, they cannot take their landed assets with them. We will, in all cases, have them return what they looted,” he added. This is even as he stressed that killing in the name of religion could never be justified. According to him, anyone or group of persons, who unleash violence on the innocent in the name of a movement, cause or religion lack understanding of the ordinances of God. “You can’t kill to please God and I know no religion tolerates the taking of another person’s life in the name of a religious movement. “There is never a justification for killing any member of the society. We have been tackling the Boko Haram menace and we have made significant impact, and we will extend the measures to stop all wanton killings,’’ he said. The president said the security apparatus would be consistently reviewed to check threats to the peaceful co-existence of all Nigerians. Leader of Qadiriyya Muslim Movement in Africa, Dr. Keribullah Nasir Kabara said the movement would continue to uphold the president in prayers for good health and longer life to pursue the course of building a stronger nation that caters for all citizens. Leader of the second group of Ulamas, Shiekh Bala Lau commended theongoing drive for infrastructural development in the country by the administration. He urged the President Buhari to continue to remember the lower segments of the population who look up to him to champion their cause.