“Dear Professor Uzorma, I must bear witness to the truth of what your oil did for me. The problem started about 12 to 13 years ago when I suddenly started having serious stomach problem that never allowed me to sleep at night without taking strong alcohol or drugs. After some time, I went to the hospital for a medical test and the result showed that I had severe growth in my abdomen. The result was frightening that I was afraid of operation; I had no option than to consult you having read much of your articles. When I contacted you, I was consequently advised to order your oil which I did. The instructions you gave were too simple and I kept to them. Midway to the prayer, I was in a dream an angel of the Lord appeared to me and placed his hands on my belly and brought out something I cannot describe and put it inside his own stomach and left. When I woke up, I discovered that the pain vanished and I went back to the hospital and my doctor was astonished on how I was miraculously healed. Thanks a lot my beloved brother and may God continue to bless you…” Mrs. Evelyn 09036685994. Those wishing to understand the nature of man should come to the true knowledge of spiritual reality. Now, I have decided to look into serious aspects of life- psychic attack. So many people do not know how to deal with this. Psychic attack is the act of inflicting injury or death by one person on another without having any contact. It is of note however that majority of people make use of demonic but elemental forces in dealing with their fellow men. Elemental force is an invisible power (that can function as a demon) which operates in or moves nature or man to activity. In science, the Elemental forces form the foundation of physics and Chemistry. There are two types of Elemental forces namely, the elemental force from the great depth of the Elemental Kingdom and the artificial Element: the former is God-made-nature, while the later is man- made. An artificial Elemental is created when a person or group of persons engage in continual visualization and concentration on an object on which a strong emotion is felt. Such concentration or intensification of thought produces what is known as thought form. Once it is successfully built, the thought form becomes “ensouled” by an Elemental “essence” which is capable of independent existence outside the consciousness of its creator or creators. Let it be emphasized here that the moment such thought is ‘ensouled’ by an elemental essence, any psychic entity or demon can use it to function in various ways. The original elemental forces have their abodes in four quarters of the earth in accordance with higher esoteric tradition. Again every elemental “being” is blind. This blindness should not be understood in the light of the physical lost of sight; no! The blindness here simply shows that they are like robot and zombie, they are always asleep. The only language they can understand (if language is the right word) is that of symbols or early morning words. Early morning words can stimulate and propel them into action. For the good purpose of clarity, these elementals, all come under the supervision of Angels of light or that of darkness. Some people consciously or unconsciously come in contact with these blind forces through their mind as a result bring upon themselves untold hardship, fear, and other related evils which they later complain. Any demonic entity cannot take over a body unless an individual gives way for it, by abandoning the body through involvement in addictive, obsessive, or compulsive patterns. Suicide attempts also open the body to possession by some entities. The demonic entity has the right to take over anybody’s body and use same as play ground for demonic activities. If the entity that has taken over the body that likes drinking or fornication, the moment he takes over the body, the person starts drinking or fornicating. Demonic possession does not operate from the area of love, the psychic entities use people to their (own) master’s advantage. The demon is not at the moment punished for doing this, rather the person he has possessed shares the responsibility of whatever the demon does. The duty of any demon in any person’s life depends on the evolution of the entity. The entity can live on any level’, conscious, sub-concious, obsessive, compulsive or possessive. These levels are in each of us and the entity comes in on the level that is accessible. These psychic entities could come from the astral causal, mental or etheric realm. Some fortune-tellers or mediums or native doctors would say that their guides –messengers come from either of the realms and may call them masters. Sometimes also these demons are very smart they may take over familiar forms and misrepresent themselves to be your uncle or late father in order to consolidate their manipulation upon your life. Demons can use information you release in the physical unite of existence to manipulate and delay your success. An entity may also be a personality from the astral level coming to hangout with some people in order to enslave and dominate them too. The reader should know that there is a body in man which is always seen in the dream world which is also called the etheric body in the mystical or esoteric parlance. This is like the soul body, which is the inner core of the physical body. This body is the internal “shell” that holds the physical body together. For us to exist as beings on earth the etheric body must be intact. This body is the middleman between the physical body and the two other bodies (soul and spirit) of man. If anything affects it adversely, (as it can happen) it lets loose its grip on the physical body and this allows the mental and spiritual bodies to begin their inward journey back home-Death occurs. This is the body we see in the dream world from time to time. If you have ever heard of the “out” of the body experience “it is the etheric body that is functioning to allow anybody involved has such experience. This body operates very well when all the physical senses are closed down either by deliberate action, sleep or unconsciously. As a Christian, I mean a born again, spirit filled child of God, if you abide in Christ righteousness, your etheric body will be impenetrable as a result no attack of the enemy can tear you into pieces.