Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja Wife of the President, Mrs. Aisha Buhari, has commended the activities of an international group, Our Collective Futures, for their humanitarian activities, charging them to do more as humanitarian issues need more actors.
She said this when she granted audience with members of the organisation at the State House on Thursday. Mrs. Buhari said it was iimportant to have many successful professionals such as members of this group who always remember the underprivileged and support them from time to time.
Her words, “The world is in need of more humanitarian actors so that humanitarian issues will reduce to the barest minimum, that is why Future Assured will not rest on its oars in helping those that are in need;” and that “Future Assured will continue to advocate for the health and well-being of women and children.
Senior Special Assistant to the President, Dr. Hajo Sani, received the visitors on behalf of the Wife of the President.
Speaking earlier, leader of the group and President of Klytec Inc., Dr. Leong Ying, said they were in Nigeria to discuss business opportunities with relevant national and private groups, but being conscious of the humanitarian activities of Mrs. Buhari through the Future Assured Programme, expressed their desire to visit her and establish collaboration in the different areas of interest of Future Assured.
Ying said members of his group span across many professions and disciplines and are successful in their various fields of endeavor. Having reached their peak, they now give back to humanity. He said they identify with the humanitarian effort that Mrs. Buhari is making and would like to support her in this regard.
Also speaking, Dr. Abiodun Asekun, a member of the group and Chief Executive of Cada Aero, a US based aeronautics firm, said there are many successful Nigerians in the group who are willing to bring their resources to provide humanitarian support to Nigeria, especially through reputable organizations like Future Assured.
Our Collective Futures has members in Asia, Middle East and the US, and are into Business, media and philanthropy. 