By Simeon Nwakaudu It is obvious that the defeated 2015 Rivers APC  governorship candidate, Dakuku Peterside is a very bitter man. The reason for his bitterness is quite clear. He was overwhelmingly  rejected by the people of Rivers State. Nyesom Ezenwo Wike (PDP) polled  1,029,102 votes to defeat  Mr Dakuku Peterside (APC)  who polled 124,896 votes. Since then, Dakuku Peterside has lost all sense commitment to Rivers State. Dakuku Peterside has since developed an anti-Rivers attitude, built on hate, disrespect for Rivers people and extreme resentment of the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike. Dakuku’s hatred for Rivers State is also fuelled by his subservience to his Oga, Rotimi Amaechi who was politically injured when Rivers people enthroned a new political order with the election of Governor Wike. His loyalty lies with Amaechi and not Rivers State.  Empirical evidence shows that these men have scores to settle with Rivers people for rejecting them. On Thursday 4th January 2018, Dakuku Peterside appeared on Rhythm FM Port Harcourt Phone-in Programme.  As usual, the programme focused on the person of Governor Wike. Like the governor said when he met Opobo-Nkoro APC decampees at the Government House, Dakuku and Amaechi gain relevance by insulting Governor Wike. His radio appearance brought to the fore a fundamental issue. Dakuku Peterside told a stunned listening audience that each time the Rivers State Security Council concludes her meeting  at the Government House, Port Harcourt, three security heads or service commanders provide APC leaders with briefing on the agenda and resolutions of the meeting. According to Dakuku Peterside, the service commanders usually told him that nothing meaningful is usually discussed, even though the meetings last long into the nights. This confirms the assertion by the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike that all the heads of security agencies in Rivers State were nominated by the minister of transportation. He said if there is any security infraction in Rivers State, the minister should seek information from his nominees  who serve as heads of security agencies. He said: “Amaechi is the one who manipulates the posting of security heads to Rivers State using the Federal Government.  They know what they are doing.If they are planning anything against Rivers State, they will not succeed.” Rivers State is lucky. God loves the state. Dakuku Peterside unwittingly confessed and revealed the source of security infractions in the state. On what legal premise is Dakuku Peterside receiving security briefing from the three service commanders who attend Rivers State  security council meetings? Why would the service commanders brief Rotimi Amaechi on the meetings that hold to check the activities of criminals? Dakuku’s confession is a major indictment of the federal security network and their unholy alliance with the APC in Rivers State. There is only one explanation to this unfortunate conspiracy against Rivers State.  Dakuku Peterside and Rotimi Amaechi work with some security chieftains  to neutralise all security strategies aimed at checking the excesses of criminals. I would have called for an investigation into this deliberate sabotage of the security architecture of Rivers State, but this is a well-oiled conspiracy. The APC Federal Government appears to be in the know.  However, let the public take note of this ugly scheme.  Dakuku Peterside was reminded that Governor Wike remains the best in terms funding of security agencies and provision of logistics. He alleged that the Rivers State Governor was investing in the provision of logistics for the security agencies because he wants to curry their favour.  Indeed, this is the worst form of argument ever made by a defeated governorship candidate. It is shocking that Dakuku Peterside believes empowering security agencies to fight crime is tantamount to influencing them to love the Rivers State Governor.  This is outlandish  to say the least. When Governor Wike said that the minister of transportation cannot be allowed to impose a house boy on Rivers State, people thought it was a joke. The defeated Rivers State APC governorship candidate could not list any project  attracted to Rivers State by the minister of transportation and himself.  The truth is they have attracted nothing to Rivers State. It is clear that Dakuku’s loss of the 2015 governorship election has thrown him off balance.  He can no longer understand  the issues of development. Politics resolves around following  the godfather sheepishly.  Otherwise, he would have at least shown respect for the People of Rivers State and their choice. This  consistent show of desperation captures the emptiness of Dakuku Peterside and his Oga. The struggle for power is for the sake of Rivers resources.  For this, Dakuku Peterside and his Oga are prepared to conspire with enemies of Rivers State to destroy her future. Luckily, Rivers State is in safe hands. The state  will overcome despite the unholy conspiracy masterminded by Dakuku Peterside and his Oga.  Governor Wike is equipped with the right knowledge, commitment and courage to face these conspirators.