Segun Adio As he does what he knows how to do best – Preaching the Word – to management and staff of The Sun Newspaper on the occasion of the 2017 Annual Thanksgivings Service, today, Friday, January 19, 2018, it is essential to appreciate this quintessential, live-coal cleric, Pastor Ituah Ighodalo. Pastor Ituah Ighodalo is a Pastor, an Accountant, a Thinker, a Social Reformer and a Writer. He obtained a B.Sc combined honours degree in Economics and Accounting in 1982 from the University of Hull, England, qualified as a Chartered Accountant in July 1986 and attended a Business Management Course at the Harvard Business School, Boston in 2011. He commenced his professional career in 1982 at Pricewaters House now Price Waterhouse Coopers (PWC) and later founded Ighodalo & Co., a professional public Accounting firm in January 1987. In October 2004, Ighodalo & Co. merged with 3 other firms to form SIAO/RSM Nigeria becoming arguably the 5th largest accounting practice in Nigeria, today. Pastor Ituah is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria and a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Taxation Nigeria; he is a member of the Nigerian Institute of Management, a Member of the American Society of Industrial Security and a member of the American Institute of Management. He is the Chairman FAMAD Nig. Plc., FINATRUST Micro Finance Bank Ltd., The Clinix Diagnostic Center, Roch Tools Ltd., Enugu Independent Power Plant Ltd., Capitalgate Ltd., Elizabeth R Events Management Ltd., Trinicorp Nig. Ltd., amongst others. He sits on the board of NSIA Insurance Ltd., Mannox Integrated Ltd., Standard Bearers School, Vivian Fowler Memorial Girls School, and several other companies.  He is also on the board of the Pastor E.A Adeboye Professorial Chair for Mathematics (UNILAG), The Bassey Andah Foundation and he Chairs the Christopher Kolade Chairs Endowment Foundation. He is also the Chancellor of Wellspring University, Benin City. He is the Publisher/Editor-in-Chief of the TIMELESS Media Group, and Chairman Trinity Media and Films. He has written and published several articles, papers and books. He is on the Council of the Nigerian British Chamber of Commerce (NBCC) and the Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA). Pastor Ituah Ighodalo chairs and is on the board of several charitable organizations and NGOs including the Courage Education Foundation, Edensfield Health Initiative, ELPIS Mental Health Initiative, Heritage Homes, The Joseph Liberty Foundation, Food Bank Initiative, The Ituah Ighodalo Foundation, The Fola Akintunde Ighodalo Foundation, The Lydia Grace Foundation, The Trinity Foundation and a few others. He has also sat on various government panels’ (State and Federal), and has been an adviser/consultant to government at different levels since 1991. He is presently a member of the Nigerian Council on Privatisation. (NCP) A sports enthusiast, he is the chairman of Trinity Football Club, The Pitch Awards and the Blind Football Initiatives, and he is also a member of the Ikoyi Club,  the Metropolitan Club and the Lagos Lawn Tennis Club. He is the Pastor-in-Charge of Trinity House, Victroria Island, Lagos. 