By Philip Nwosu The Air Officer Commanding (AOC) Nigerian Air Force Logistics Command, Air Vice Marshal Ibrahim  Yahaya has emphasized the need for the Federal Government and Nigerians to support the Nigerian Navy in its fight against crude oil theft and piracy at sea. AVM Yahaya, said it would be worthwhile to encourage the navy to continue to fight illegality at sea, given the country’s high dependence on oil revenues. He described the navy as a major contributor to the economic mainstay of Nigeria, The AOC spoke at the 2017 Ceremonial Sunset, organized by the Naval Training Command (NAVTRAC). According to him, by supporting the Nigerian Navy to fight illegality at sea, Nigerians are ensuring that the country’s economic well being within the context of the prevailing national economy is preserved. He commended the efforts of the Nigerian Navy in ensuring the reduction of illegal bunkering, oil theft  as well as piracy and smuggling within the country’s maritime domain. The Naval officer  said that the commitment of the Nigerian Navy in internal security duties  on the hinterland and the adjoining waterways have helped to abate the rate of criminalities in several areas within their areas of responsibility. While commending  the efforts of the personnel of the Nigerian Army, Navy and Air Force in working together to achieve a common goal, the AOC said that the cooperation between the armed forces personnel; and other para-military agencies had been quite impressive He urged junior officers and ratings to be above board and not do anything that would tarnish the image of the military, adding that the military must also ensure that they protect civilians, particularly the people of Lagos State, noting that the location of the military in Lagos Area is not by accident. Earlier, the Flag Officer Commanding (FOC) Logistics Command, Rear Admiral Obi Ofodile,  explained the origin of ceremonial sunset, explaining that the military ceremony came into being following the 1797 mutinies in the British Fleet at Spithead, one Admiral Lord Vincent of the Royal Navy established the practice of raising and lowering the colour. He said that the sunset is a combination of three ceremonies, the ancient ceremony of the British Retreat, Tattoo and lowering of the National Flag. Admiral Ofodile said that the ceremony was  an important event as it marks the end of all the events in the year and helps to raise the awareness and understanding of one of the age long tradition in the navies worldwide. 