By Doris Obinna A public health expert and former Chief Medical Director of Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Prof Akin Osibogun, has said no fewer than 1,000 Nigerians die annually as a result of disease epidemics.
Speaking at an annual health symposium, with theme, “Emergency Response to Disease Outbreaks: The Way Forward in Nigeria,” he said these deaths were caused by government’s lack of political will and non-preparedness to combat disease epidemics.
Osibogun said: “In 2014, the Federal Government promised to establish six functional laboratories, but nothing of such is yet to be set up. Yes, the government has done well with the establishment of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), but there is yet to be a law in place to back up the centre and strengthen its operations. Also, there is no national plan of action that will prepare us for any form of disease outbreak.”
Osibogun said it was far cheaper to be prepared than to combat disease outbreaks, declaring that a strong health system was better for prevention of disease epidemics than response when it happens.
According to him, “political commitment is highly required to make adequate funds available to provide needed infrastructure, such as laboratories for prompt diagnosis, researches, treatment centres and medical equipment. There should be constant training and retraining of medical personnel for emergency preparedness.
“Again, there must be strong collaboration between the federal and state governments and other health agencies on how to contain outbreaks.”
Also speaking, Hon Olusegun Olulade, Chairman, House Committee on Health, Lagos State House of Assembly, said health issue was a collective project and, therefore, should not be left alone in the hands of government.
Said he: “Without good health, there will be no meaningful life; that is why health should be a collective project for both the government and the people.
“At the National Assembly, we do over oversights to monitor happenings in our health facilities as well as sponsor bills and policies. This is to ensure that we secure the health of citizens and residents.
“Government alone cannot do it. I therefore implore religious bodies and corporate organisations to support the government by establishing health centres for the benefit of everybody.”