Zika Bobby Happy with electoral victories recorded by the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in Anambra State, Board of Trustees (BoT) member and spiritual leader of the Igbo nation, Chief Rommy Ezeonwuka, said he has set fresh target for the party ahead of the 2019 general elections. In a statement at the weekend, the Ogirisi Igbo said he is optimistic that having produced wonderful results in Anambra, what lay next for the party is to break new grounds and win more elective positions nationwide in 2019. Ezeonwuka said with APGA’s present achievements in Anambra, it shows that a ‘performer governor’ is piloting the party’s ship. “Check out Governor Willie Obiano’s record in ensuring adequate security in Anambra State, moving agriculture to the next level, massive construction of roads and community development projects. “These were positive signs that he was going to be reelected. Also, the performances of APGA lawmakers like Ferdinand Dozie, Nwankwo, Ossy Prestige and Gabriel Onyenwife, to mention a few, show APGA is ordained by divine providence for good performance. “All those who rode on the party’s back to achieve success and later decided to leave, are no where today,” he said.
He, however, urged the party’s national leadership to unite and strategise towards making 2019 APGA year. “APC has mandated its National Leader, Bola Tinubu, to put the party together ahead of 2019. PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus, is moving round with his team in readiness for 2019. “APGA must not lag behind. Our party leaders must put machinery in motion and start massive awareness campaign for 2019.” APGA national leaders must always protect the interest of party faithful against political harlots, who, at a point come into the party to seek opportunity to contest election, and at the end, abandon the people that voted them in. “ Our party will no longer be hijacked to the detriment of those who have worked for progress and sustenance of the party. The era of ‘Monkey dey work Baboon dey chop’ is over,” he said.