Super Eagles striker, Ahmed Musa has return to his old Russian club, CSKA Moscow. He even scored on his first game, ending months of inaction with Leicester City in the English Premier League. Here is the Nigerian first interview on his return to PFC CSKA on loan. Were you in touch with our guys during your spell at Leicester City? Maybe you read some news about out the club? I always watched some PFC CSKA games. CSKA is in my blood; I can never forget that I was here. I also chatted with other players. In your farewell interview you said how hard it was for you to part ways with our fans? Yeah, I’ve received messages from fans saying: ‘Musa, we want you back!’ And finally, I am back home. I’m happy that I’m going to play at the new stadium. I’ve never been there and I’m very excited to play at the new arena. You didn’t have enough practice at Leicester City. So, how quickly are you expecting to regain your fitness conditions? Maybe I need one week of heavy training to return me to my fitness level. We’ve got a little of time to get me back to normal, there is no time to waste! Do you know that the guys from the team have filmed a welcome message for you? I saw the video and I was just laughing! I saw words from the captain and goalkeeper Igor Akinfeev, and I saw from Pontus and Aaron Samuel. Pontus was a little bit funny in the video! I’m gonna take that challenge from him and do my best at CSKA. How do you think, was Pontus good enough as a striker for our team? I watched some game and thought: ‘What Pontus is doing there as a striker?’ It was important for the club, he scored some fantastic goals for the team. I think he was very good. We are 10 points behind Lokomotiv in the Premier League. Do you feel we still can challenge them for the title? If you remember, we had a challenge like that some years ago, and we came from behind to win the league. This would be tough. We need to keep ourselves working very hard and we will see at the end of the season where do we end up. Do you have any ideas on how coach is going to use you on the pitch? Is there any difference for you to play striker or winger? There’s no difference. I worked with this coach and he knows the best position to put me in. I’m not a new person for him. Did you miss harsh jokes from Berezutskiy brothers? (Laughs) When I was coming, I was thinking that they are going to kill me with different types of jokes! But I’m used to it. I feel very happy; I missed those jokes from the players.