Paul Osuyi, Asaba Kidnappers of a senior lecturer at the Delta State University (DELSU), Abraka, Dr. Boniface Anyanwu and the son of another lecturer of the institution, are now demanding a ransom of N20 million for them to be released. Dr. Anyanwu, an asthmatic patient, was reportedly abducted at the weekend by gunmen who stormed his house at Obiaruku, Ukwuani council area from where the second victim was also taken away. Anyanwu’s abduction is raising grave worries among his colleagues, as he was said to be forcefully taken away without his medication after he and his co-victim were crammed into the booth of his car. One of his colleagues, Prof. Elo Ibagere, expressed concerns over the health status of Anyanwu, saying that he “Is asthmatic. We don’t know the state of his health now. He was taken away without his medication. The children of Dr. Anyanwu who are still young are scared, but they are stable,” adding, however, that family members and close associates of the victims were still waiting for the negotiation with the kidnappers, whom he said were in touch with the wife. Wife of the victim, Dr. (Mrs.) Bona Anyanwu, confirmed that the hoodlums had opened a channel of communication with the family on Sunday, but refused to state their demanding, saying “we are still negotiating with the abductors.” This is even as the chairman of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), DELSU chapter, Prof. Abel Diakparomre appealed to the hostage takers to release the victims unconditionally. “Anyanwu was kidnapped alongside Prof. Nwachukwu’s son, and they are demanding N10 million on each of them. We call on the state government to mobilize security for the rescue of the victims unconditionally. “We are lecturers, we don’t have money than our salaries. We don’t know why they target us. We are worried the whole place is looking so insecure. The government should help us,” the ASUU boss pleaded. Public Relations Officer of the state police command, DSP Andrew Aniamaka, confirmed the incident, in Asaba, on Monday, but urged the family not to pay ransom as operatives have been mobilised to rescue the victims unhurt and bring the perpetrators to justice. Community sources told our correspondent that the hoodlums stormed Anyanwu’s home at about 2:00am and access by pulling down the burglary proof. Aside whisking away the victims, the hoodlums allegedly made away with two laptops, phones, the unspecified amount of money and other valuable items.