• ‘For spreading false news, inciting public disturbance, others’ • Disquiet at ex-military president’s home Molly Kilete, Abuja; John Adams, Minna The Nigeria Police Force have declared former military President, General Ibrahim Babangida’s spokesman, Prince Kassim Afegbua, wanted. Afegbua was declared wanted after the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris, ordered his arrest on Sunday night, following a statement he released on behalf of Babangida, which asked President Muhammadu Buhari not to seek re-election in 2019. Another statement denounced the one released by Afegbua and insisted that the second statement was the authentic statement from the general’s camp. Later that day, Babangida insisted he authorised release of Afegbua’s statement. Before then, the police had declared Afegbua wanted for spreading false news, among other offences. Force Public Relations Officer, Moshood Jimoh, told Daily Sun that Afegbua has been declared wanted after he failed to show up at the police headquarters in Abuja, yesterday. He also said Afegbua was declared wanted after the expiration of the 24-hour deadline given to him to report to the police. Jimoh confirmed that the IGP actually ordered Afegbua’s arrest and added that he is wanted for spreading false news. “Yes, the IGP ordered his arrest, for making false statement, spreading falsehood, defamation of character and act capable of inciting public disturbance. We have declared him wanted and he should report to the police for giving false statement… Back in Minna, an atmosphere of disquiet pervaded Babangida’s uphill home, yesterday, after  two conflicting statements emanated from his media department. The usual beehive of activities around General Babangida’s home, with a constant stream of visitors, was, however, at its lowest ebb, with only domestic staff busy with their normal routine. The only notable visitor in the house, yesterday, was former director of Military Intelligence, during Babangida’s regime, Brigadier General Halilu Akilu (retd) and his friends. Daily Sun gathered that Akilu’s visit had nothing to do with the two statements from Babangida’s media aides. All attempts by Minna-based journalists to seek audience with Babangida, to get clarifications on the two statements were unsuccessful. But, a source close to the uphill residence, however, told Daily Sun that Afegbua, who released the first statement “has been declared persona non grata because oga was not happy with the embarrassment caused him by that statement. “Actually, he (Babangida) did not sign the second statement, personally. We did it to douse tension. People, especially IBB associates, were calling; to know the true position of things,” the source, who declined to be named, said. 