…As NIPS opens in Abuja Uche Usim, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday assured that the ongoing war against corruption will be sustained until a new image of the country was created. Speaking at the opening of the first Nigeria International Petroleum Summit (NIPS) in Abuja, the President, who was represented by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, said his administration was determined to make the Nigerian business environment very conducive and attractive to local, regional and global investors. He added that some Executive Orders (EOs) bordering on ease of doing business were recently signed to make the Nigerian business climate soothing and investment-friendly. Buhari described the summit as a good platform to market the rich petroleum and gas resources of the country, pointing out that his administration would continue to deploy new measures to grow the economy through foreign partnerships. He applauded the organisers of the  summit for modelling it after the popular Offshore Technological Conference (OTC), but localising it as the African Petroleum Technology and Business Conference (APTC). “It is very significant and has full government backing and it also represents a platform for global players to come to Africa. As a major component of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP), the summit provides the linkage to the world. “So, the war against corruption is continuing until there is a new image of the country. Part of NIPS’ objectives is to provide leadership for Africa; to make it one of the most important annual oil and gas summits. We’ll generate revenue and jobs. This will show Nigeria’s focus on oil, boost investors’ confidence, institutionalise reforms and galvanise Nigeria as leading oil player,” the President said. He said his administration was committed to cleaner energy that is gas based, even as he urged participants to ensure the successful implementation of the resolutions reached at the summit. In his remarks, the Minister of State, Petroleum Resources, Dr. Ibe Kachikwu, said NIPS has come to replace OTC, lamenting that the latter had become an annual jamboree for government officials. “For OTC, we often have 400-500 delegates attending. Yet only a few of the attendees do the real business. It has become export of forex by Nigeria and good forex generation for the US. So, going forward, no government fund will be used to fund it. We have set up an African version of it to bring our African stakeholders together and forge ways forward. We need to bring investors here to see what Africa has to offer. 