Did you know that demand for grasscutter meat has increased by 320% from 2001, and is expected to steadily increase in the years to come? Did you also know that the price of grasscutter meat in Nigeria, the United States (and Canada, the U.K., and France) is high because there’s a serious lack of supply? It’s a fact: demand for grasscuttert meat is increasing substantially every year, but there aren’t enough farmers raising meat grasscutters! You’d never think the grasscutter business could be that big of an industry, could you? Hi, my name is Prince Arinze Onebunne of JOVANA FARMS, but you can just call me “The Grasscutter Guy” I started farming grasscutter as a profitable farming opportunity many years ago, and haven’t looked back. Over the past few years I’ve amassed a lot of knowledge on what it takes to quickly scale up a grasscutter operation. I’ve decided to share everything that I’ve learned over the years with you through my nationwide profitable grasscutter farming seminars and self tutorial VCD and book! “Grasscutter industry is fastest-growing segment of farm industry right now” If you’re looking to expand your farm into the industry of the future, you’ve come to the right place. “Demand for Grasscutters Just Keeps Growing” Many of my friends ask me, “Why is demand for grasscutter meat increasing so quickly?” Here are just two of the biggest reasons: Grasscutter meat is white, has the lowest cholesterol levels, is lean and contains high levels of nutrients. Grasscutters are farmed naturally, so no growth stimulants, antibiotics, chemicals or supplements containing animal protein are fed to the animals. Today, grasscutter represent the future of massive livestock profits. Jovana Farms provides information and expertise aimed at sustainability, has trained more than 3000 farmers in Nigeria and other African countries on profitable grasscutter farming over the past five years. Listen, it doesn’t take a rocket scientist to be successful in this business. A farmer with no training, poor-quality animals and little or no animal health programme, and who suffers high stock losses from mortalities doesn’t remain motivated for long. The market already exists. New farmers should be provided with the basics upon which to build a business to supply that market. This consists of training, foundation stock and essential inputs. Just like participating in our nationwide livestock seminars and talking with us face-to-face, you will feel quite at home as we share with you the answers you’ve wanted to know to questions such as… What types of vegetation do grasscutters thrive on? What is the best number of Grasscutters to start a decent meat grasscutter production business? The answers to all of these questions and more are yours to discover. The Jovana Farms nationwide agro-seminars, VCD and book is just jam-packed full of practical and potentially very profitable information. We’ve provided the answers to the most pressing questions and concerns faced by grasscutter interested people like you. Here’s what you’ll discover… * The key differences between Crossbreed and other breeds of grasscutters in terms of temperament ease of breeding, and diseases. * Why genetics are so important to building a profitable grasscutter farm. Two good reasons to attend our nationwide seminars. The grasscutter meat market is taking off – but the winners in this industry will be the farmers who take action to start building their business now. Your family deserves financial security! And what better way to do that than to diversify your farm and get into a fast-growing market. Now, we sell grasscutter breeding family that comprises one-male and four-females from N60, 000-N65, 000, depending on the breed! If you are interested in starting a grasscutter breeding operation in your locality contact Jovana farms best advice and mentorship.. Contact us for consultancy or attend Jovana Farms seminars nearest to you and discover everything you need to know about breeding grasscutters! Can’t attend? Order for Self-tutorial VCD & book. Visit: www.jovanafarms.com, E-mail:jovanafarms@gmail.com or Call: 080 33262 808, for more details. Choose also the nearest SEMINAR venue from the advert box in this page or our website.