Lukman Olabiyi The Lagos State Chapter of the National Conscience Party (NCP) has disassociated itself from alliance with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and 34 other political parties. According to press statement issued by the state chairman of the party, Fatai Ibu-Owo, and its Publicity Director, Olaseni Ajai,  they totally disassociated the party from the so-called alliance and the signed Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with PDP and others. They described the alliance as nothing but unprincipled and unholy alliance with no benefit to the Nigerian masses, the NCP, and with no no value whatsoever. “The attention of the National Conscience Party NCP Lagos State Chapter has been drawn to a media report announcing an alliance between the NCP, PDP and 34 other political parties. The media report presented the National Chairperson of the Party, Dr. Yinusa Tanko as a major player in the alliance. “For the avoidance of any doubt, the NCP Lagos State chapter totally dissociates itself from this so-called alliance and the signed MOU. We consider this as nothing but an unprincipled and unholy alliance with no benefit to the Nigerian masses, the NCP and with no value whatsoever. “The national chairperson who is also one of the presidential aspirants within the party acted on his own individual interest and without consultation with any of the organs of the party. The action of the national chair is not in the interests and principles of the party and did not have the authority to act as such”, the statement read. The Lagos chapter of the party held that  NCP has absolutely nothing in common with PDP or APC., adding that both  the PDP and the APC to them were categorised as birds of the same feather with no difference whatsoever and the Nigerian masses want a total booting out of the two parties of evil. “The NCP is a party built on solid principles and would not associate with any political parties out to deceive the masses. “It is important to note that for sixteen years PDP’s reign, the country was plundered and they imposed wicked and inhuman economic programs that devalued the lives of the overwhelming majority. “We cannot and will not forget this reality as we confront the atrocities of Buhari – APC’s misrule, which in no way is different from PDP. “Scores of the other political parties in the so-called alliance have no different programs from that of the PDP or APC. “Stand for the truth even if you stand alone – Chief Gani Fawehinmi”, the state further read. The statement stated that NCP we maintain its principled position of neither APC nor PDP as there was no difference between the two political parties of the Nigerian ruling elites and imperialism. It stated further that NCP’s candidates would not step down for anybody and an NCP government would not include PDP elements nor shall it hold office in a PDP government.”The leadership organs of the NCP are not in any way involved in the so-called meetings, as they have not met. “Second, plans are on the way for the party’s primaries along with scores of activities aimed at mobilizing the Nigerian masses and youth. “The NCP is a party of the struggle and the masses, any attempt to mislead it into an unholy alliance with political parties with a long criminal would definitely fail”.