Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa Commendations have continued to trail the peaceful ward congress held by the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Bayelsa State. APC members in the state had resisted a last minute attempt to disrupt the congress through a court action by the expelled Chairman of the APC, Mr. Tiwei Orunimighe. A onetime Chairman of the Conference of Nigerian Political Parties (CNPP) in Bayelsa State, Hon. Sunday Frank-Oputu who has offered reason for the peaceful congress in the 105 wards of the State said the party used the congress to send a message to the Peoples Democratic Party that it is ready to take over the state. According to Hon. Sunday Frank-Oputu, though past crises and violence during congresses were instigated by sponsored agents and bad eggs within the party, the decision by the leaders of the APC to allow voting at the last congresses at the ward level and allow the party members to choose their leaders led to a peace Congress devoid of rancour. According to Sunday Frank-Oputu many of the party detractors were expecting violence to erupt but were when the ward congress was held peaceful without rancor. Oputu who also commended party members for their calmness in the face of provocation by by the Court order supported former Governor, Chief Timipre Sylva for his condemnation of the Court action which was aimed scuttling the congress He said ”Can anybody plant a dead wood and expect it to grow? The sacked Chairman does not understand that he was sacked by over 83 per cent of State Working Committee of the Party and ratified after various committees’ reports. “First he should have sought the order reinstating him as member of the party before seeking reinstatement. This showed that the judgement was secure on failed ground. “Without contesting his suspension/expulsion, he is seeking to be reinstated as Chairman. Which party will he preside over?  As far as the party is concerned, the exparte order failed and lack locus. On his ambition to contest the position of the State Chairman of the Party, Hon. Sunday Frank Okputu said his interest in the Chairman position of the party is based on a vision for the setting up of a vibrant opposition built on a solid political party front like the All Progressive Congress (APC).      