Olanrewaju Lawal Birnin-Kebbi Following the disagreement that trailed the APC Congress in Kebbi State, delegates from nine of the 21 councils in the state reassembled at Halidu Abdul Stadium, on Sunday evening, to affirm state executives appointed by a faction of the party. The delegates were from Birnin-Kebbi, Mega, Kalgo, Bagudo, Aliero, Gwandu, Argungu, Maiyama, Dankwa- Sagu local government areas of the state. Other 12 local government areas of the state were not represented. Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, all the Senators including Sen. Adamu Aliero, former Governor Saadu Nadamu Dakingeri, members of the House of Representatives, Speaker House of Assembly as well as other political official holders were absent at the Congress. As at 6:30p.m, on Sunday, Deputy Governor Col. Samaila Yombe Dabai (rtd), Kebbi State House of Assembly majority leader, Hon. Bello Yakub Rellisco, Commissioner for Sports, Abubakar Imam Besse, Commissioner for Health, Alhaji Umar Usman Kambasa were the only top government officials with the delegates at the venue. While addressing delegates, Hon. Bello Yakub Relisco, who blamed leaders of the party for the botched state Congress, said: ” I will dumped APC and joined other party. We should fear God. Just because of one person you are not sincere in all arrangements of the state Congress. If we don’t tell our leaders the naked truth, we are going to continue suffering. “This is what killed PDP and it will what will killed APC in the state. We have forgotten that it is God that gives power, hence we bend on whims and caprices of a being.” Chairman of APC national State Congress committee, Suleiman Ahmed, who supervised the affirmation exercise,  confirmed Commissioner for Water Resource, Alhaji Bala Danni Kangiwa, as new Chairman of APC in the state among other state executives elected through affirmation. Kangiwa in his acceptance speech thanked Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu on the 11-man committee set up to resolve crisis in the party and other aspirants for decided to stepped down for the new elected officials stressed that APC remained a one party in the state. The congress was monitored by armful security personnel.