NAN The National Library of Nigeria (NLN) says it will distribute several books to pregnant women across Nigerian hospitals, to promote reading culture between them and their unborn children. Prof. Lenrie Aina, the National Librarian, NLN, stated this on Wednesday in Jos during the 2018 Readership Campaign tagged: “Sustaining Life Long Reading for Positive Change’’. He said that the books would be distributed to the women during their ante-natal visits to selected hospitals in the country. Represented by Mrs Pauline Ogbo, NLN’s Legal Officer, Aina, said that the aim was to ensure that the expectant mothers read the books to their unborn children. “Books will be distributed to expectant mothers in some selected hospitals during ante-natal days for them to read to their unborn babies. “To sustain lifelong reading culture, there is a need to develop reading interest right from childhood. “We are taking a cue from findings of a renowned writer and child psychologist, who says that reading during pregnancy, increases the intelligence of babies. “Reading to the unborn child provides stimulation for the baby’s growing brain and can make children get used to the sound of their parents’ voices,’’ he said. He said that NLN was engaging the National Youth Service Corp (NYSC) to establish reading clubs at their orientation camps and places of primary assignment. Gov. Simon Lalong in his remark said that his administration had approved the rehabilitation of the state library, as part of efforts to promote reading culture in the state. Lalong, who was represented by the Commissioner for Secondary Education, Mr Jude Eli, said that the government was collaborating with development partners to establish e-libraries in public schools. “We are partnering to establish libraries in all post-primary and tertiary institutions in the state. “We have already commenced installation in 40 schools as a pilot scheme,’’ he said. Also, Mrs Sarah Mshelia, Acting Branch Head of NLN Plateau, said that the event was a sensitisation effort to revive reading culture in the state. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that four schools attended the event, where a desktop computer and books were presented to winners of a reading competition.