The oldest Sports club in Nigeria, the Calabar Sports club was present. From Imo all the nice, entertainment clubs from Okorocha clean but bulldozed city of Owerri were in full representation. Clubs in Ebonyi led by the President of Abakaliki and Afikpo Tennis Clubs swung their racquets and stayed the evening and the night to enjoy good food, wine and music. Not to be out done Nnewi Sport Club landed town and members would not forget for a long time the extravaganza and the Roman feast that came their way. When the Enugu Sports Clubs threes open their gates and invited the sporting Clubs of the former Eastern Nigeria to assemble and be part of the celebratory program honoring the record accomplishments of the Rangers International FC, Archbishop Emmanuel Chukwuma said the prayers and warned that the Clergy would embark on a massive Protest against the Fulani killing of the innocent. Prof. Barth Nnaji former Minister of Power, and the Ohaneze President were all seated when she entered. As usual the Ikemba evergreen Queen dismantled the entire proceedings as her overthrowing beauty and majestic gait took the shine from the high table. As the co author of that Clubs origin, history and archivist, I was invited by the indefatigable Chairman of the club who asked me to come in with some of the book, Rangers International FC History of People… I departed home some few hours to go and arrived the Club few minutes to go. For some few minutes I was in confusion and I was losing my bearing. As a young man, a student of C.K.C Onitsha I remember my days and times at the club. The first time I visited and played in the club was when Patrick Obi succeeded in destroying my soccer career. In the C.K.C very successful school boys squad, Forster “De Bomber” Ikeagu, Chukwuma Nwankwo and I were taken by our coach Obi Okoye to Dan Anyiain to register for Rangers. It was almost a done deal as Ikeagu, Chukwuma Nwankwo were already signed, when from nowhere the former West African Tennis Champion Patrick Obi rushed in and held my left hand. He blurted, “Dan you have enough talents for your football and Rangers… you are not going to take Emma Okocha. He is my under 16 tennis champion. He is going to play tennis to professional level.” Obi Okoye responded “ Emma is my student he is the only footballer at that age who can keep and defend the ball like Dominic Ezeani. Moreover I brought these three boys all the way from Onitsha in my car to join the Rangers. The argument attracted the Solomonic intervention of Dr. Egwu the Rangers chairman He promptly produced a twenty naira coin and tossed tail or head? Patrick who picked head won the toss and did not waste time in moving me away in his white 404 Peugeot car from the stadium to the sports club Enugu. In the car Patrick Obi consoled me… “why are you sobbing, you mean you preferred soccer the game of boxers, hooligans and ghetto boys.?” When we got to the Enugu sports club, Patrick Obi ordered the waiting girls to “hit some!” “Look at them, see the tennis balls and the elegant flying skirts… and tell me where you want to be. Immediately, to see better, I quickly wiped out my tears with my bare hands. The beautiful teenage millato girls, Jennifer Nwokedi Obiageli Iwobi who I understand is a judge, then the effervescent Esther Onyekwelu were all hitting the balls and I was not the only gazing monkey at the sports club. Esther was for many years Nigerian woman No 1 seed. With Patrick Obi the Enugu sport club produced from the Ball Boys cadre great players like Tony Mmoh who for many years was Nigerian doubles champion. There were many others like Edwin Chukwura who followed Tony’s footsteps. There were also great chairmen, Ofiah di Ulu Nebedum, Isi Ewu Okonkwo and my doubles partner Dr. Okunna. I will never forget the RH Engr. Umeh. So why would I miss my compass, approaching the sports club?. I was not able to recognise the landmark Railways quarters adjacent to the club. The leading in landscape and the main buildings have been tremendously transformed. Nigerian clubs who are still in quandary what to do should come to Enugu sport clubs and they would acclaim the American wonders. I congratulate the present Chairman, his Executives and those special friends in the Rangers that received their overdue awards. God bless you Christian Chukwu, Nwabueze Nwankwo, Alhaji Nwobodo, Mecha, Patrick ILuno, Ahidjo Onyedika, Majic man Abana and the great London Boy Dr. Johnny Egbuonu. The oldest surviving Green Eagle player Chukwuma Igweonwu. GBURU–GBURU before you kill Rangers Finally… SACK COACH, TEAM MANAGER OWUMI
For the records, the fledging Police team of Enugu before the Enugu fans stopped the Rangers F.A. 2018 cup dreams last weekend. Governor Gburu- Gburu before you kill the Rangers finally, please sack the coach and bring in the Ranger man Sylvanus Okpala. He is the best Nigerian coach without a Job. Rangers is not a Wawa or Nigerian Federal Character team. All the police footballers that beat Rangers are all living in Enugu. No millions of Naira sign on fees. That police team spent less than 300 thousand naira to build a killers squad, as compared to millions lavished on the Rangers who can’t represent their state in the FA cup final. Sack Owumi the so called team manager or whatever you call him. His very unproductive managerial antecedent is causing division and lack of focus in the Rangers camp. Folks, it is no rocket science. Just pick up a copy of the trending book, Rangers International FC… a History of the People … our recommendation are the solution. Any coach who cannot speak Igbo any tim, who does not know that the Igbo boys do not need further coaching, for football is like Atilogwu or the Ogbagbada Akokwa masquerade … the way we dance is the way we play football. Watch Jay-Jay, the Obis, watch Iwobi on the break… ask the wise Westerholf. Ask Rohr why he is relying on Igbo boys to deliver him on the impending World Cup finals.