As I promised the other time, here are some editions of something I have been doing on Facebook for some years now. Ask the Boss provides raw answers to socio-emotional puzzles. The impact has been humbling. These picks cover the vexed subjects of blind faith, sick loyalty, and the audacity of genotype. ‘The Boss, how can a man rise again when he has nothing with which to restart; no one to turn to; and unceasing prayers have provided no succour hitherto’? – Miss Precious Miracle Peters, Uyo This entry bears two seemingly insignificant, innocent mistakes that we all make, almost always. The writer talks about no man being willing or available to help and sustained prayers with no replies from heaven. I try never to answer a question with a question, but she leaves me with no other choice: who should a human being in crisis turn to first, man or the Creator? Secondly, who answers prayers; how and when? I can help you. Man must turn to God first, at all times. God is too awesome, too (O)mega-and-Alphaish to be an alternative; too omnipotent to be introduced as a sub. I mean, who can bench God? God alone answers prayers, and trust me on this one: He answers all prayers. Problem though is human beings want Him at our beck and call. We want God to answer how and when we want it. We never see no as an answer nor understand delay as human impatience to God’s perfect timing! A wee part of my personal story should suffice. I never believed our media brand, Bush House Nigeria, could run into horrible financial weather because with altruism being our corporate policy, I thought we were covered. Yet, in 2015 all hell broke loose. My people and I prayed and prayed and prayed -and fasted; no show! When I could no longer wait for that divine intervention (read when I no more trusted God to show up), I did what we all do. I descended every valley, climbed every height looking for help. Let me say it raw: I went on self-help. I reached BushHouse Nigeria beneficiaries who have gone up in life as well as those I felt were in a position to help.
I wanted to outsmart God. But, I drew blank, and with piling debts and threatening creditors, I resorted to selling belongings. Alas, I crawled back prodigally to the First and Last Man standing. God is too much! The rest, as they say, is history. We must learn to wait for and on God. In and out of crisis, we need God, not men. In His time, God brings the people we need; without His say-so even our best lovers cannot help us!
I’ve prayed for your man. When he redirects his focus, he would see that time not God held back answer(s) to his prayers. He shall rise again. God bless Nigeria! ‘Why do promising young people give up their lives for men who won’t attend their funeral’? – Peter Benjamin Peter, Nigeria Immigration Service, Abuja This looks to be our briefest outing. As I see it, there are three broad reasons young people waste their promising future for undeserving men. One is ignorance which derives from no wisdom and knowledge. Two is inferiority complex: low self-esteem sufferers are prey for the army of godless men on the prowl. Three is greed, a shameful function of our all-money culture. An adolescent ignorant of how life works; or devastated by lack or natural injustice; or who has a wolfish appetite would undervalue his life. However, youths must understand that at the end they’d account for their lives. They mustn’t allow just anybody into their space. Haste, hunger, pain and doubt or fear can be cured by just a little more time and contentment!
‘THE BOSS, please advise young partners who fell in love and have grown in it hoping to get married only to discover that they are both AS’? – Anonymous This guy has since been enjoying love things and even dreaming marriage and honeymoon things. In all that time, he enjoyed alone but now that genotype has said the centre can no longer hold, he’s looking for who would join his wailing party. That’s only a joke to cheer up the two young people concerned, and indeed others stranded in a similar cul-de-sac. Listen, I know and love and trust God so much but I also am smart enough never to tempt Him by flaunting stupidity thinking that mercy and grace shall write it off! Nearly eight billion people in the world means there are enough women and men to go round and so, no one man should contemplate let alone sow pains for especially his descendants, in the name of love. I found these First Aid and Emergency Tips online and I thought everyone and you should know them by heart: Genotype Compatibility chart
AA + AA = AA, AA (Good) AA + AS = AA, AS (Good) AA + SS = AS, AS (Good)
AA + AC = AA, AC (Good) AS + AS = AA, AS, SS (Bad) AS + SS = AS, SS (Bad)
SS + SS = SS, SS (Bad) AS + AC = Need advice AC + SC = Need advice AC + SS = Need advice
My dear Anony, flowing from this chart, my advice -to address your request head on- is: get thyself thine destiny handmaid as the one with thee is not thy missing rib. Flee now or forever be ready for curses from your children, grandchildren and great grandchildren!