Louis Ibah Pilots-in-Command of all aircraft arriving Nigeria from overseas are now to report to the Nigerian Air Traffic Control (ATC) any suspected case of communicable disease onboard their flight or risk sanctions, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) said in a new set of guidelines issued on Tuesday to govern international airline operations following the outbreak of the Ebola virus disease in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Spokesman for NCAA, Mr. Sam Adurogboye, told journalists in Lagos yesterday that the new guidelines also make it mandatory for all international airlines to get clearance from the Nigerian Port Health Services before importing human remains into the country. According to Adurogboye, the regulatory agency in the  safety guidelines dispatched to all operating airlines  “called for a high level of vigilance by airlines, especially those operating international and regional flights into Nigeria.”
In the circular, all airlines were informed of the outbreak of Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) in the Democratic Republic of Congo on May 8, 2018. “Airlines are to report to NCAA in writing, of any suspected case of communicable disease in flight, while Pilots-in-Command of all aircraft arriving  Nigeria from overseas are now to report to the Nigerian Air Traffic Control (ATC) any suspected case of communicable disease onboard their flight,”  Adurogboye said. He said the circular also demands that “airlines ensure they have onboard valid and appropriate number of first aid kits, universal precaution kits and emergency medical kits and airlines are also mandated to refresh the knowledge of their crew members in the handling and communicating with ATC of any suspected case of communicable disease on board. “In the case of any suspected case of communicable disease by any passenger on board an aircraft, aircrew are to fill the General Declaration (Gen Dec) and Public Health Passenger Locator forms in line with Nigerian civil aviation regulations 18.8.17.4 and 18.8.22.5 respectively. “Completed Gen Dec and Public Health Passenger Locator forms are also to be submitted to the Port Health Services (PHS) of the destination airport,” Adurogboye added. Adurogboye said notwithstanding the new guidelines, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Federal Ministry of Health and all other relevant agencies have taken concerted steps to ensure the virus does not creep into Nigeria through any of the international airports.