Governor of Enugu State, Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi second term bid received a heavy boost yesterday as the people of Enugu East Senatorial District endorsed his candidature for the 2019 governorship election in the state. The people who trooped out in their large number in what could be described as the mother of all rallies in the state said that the solidarity rally was in support of the re-election of Governor Ugwuanyi based on his good works in the last three years. The people of Nkanuland through a motion moved by the former Minister of Power, Prof. Barth Nnaji, seconded by the former Military Administrator of Abia State, Col. Anthony Obi (rtd) and put to voice vote by the former Minister of Information, Hon. Frank Nweke, unanimously endorsed Ugwuanyi for a second term in office. They said that the governor has engendered peace and good governance in the state, adding that his “uncommon leadership style” has favoured the people of Nkanuland in so many ways. The colourful event, which was attended by other notable stakeholders from the zone, such as the Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Edward Ubosi; Senator Gil Emeka Nnaji and his colleagues in the National Assembly; members of the State Assembly and State Executive Council, Council Chairmen, including Lady Jane Nnamani, wife of the former President of the Senate, Senator Ken Nnamani, among others, also witnessed the presentation an endorsement register signed by the stakeholders of the zone.
Moving the motion for the endorsement, Prof. Nnaji said that the governor through his humility and passion for the development of the Enugu State “provides good roads, especially in the rural areas and pays workers’ salaries every month when some states are owing over six months”. He disclosed that Ugwuanyi through his financial ingenuity has raised the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) of the state and is “working very hard to ensure that Enugu State Diagnostic Centre commences operation soon”. Also speaking, the State Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Hon. Augustine Nnamani explained that the rally was a mass gathering of all the people of Nkanuland in appreciation of the governor’s “inclusive,  people-oriented and development driven leadership,” adding: “Today’s rally is highly symbolic because it was organized by the entire people of Nkanuland”. Also speaking, the Speaker of the State House of Assembly said that he was overwhelmed by the governor’s peace and good governance initiatives in Nkanuland in particular and the state in general, stressing that he deserves a second term to enable him complete the good works he has started in the state. Responding, Ugwuanyi thanked the people of Nkanuland for their support, solidarity, goodwill, prayers and endorsement, urging them to intensify efforts towards the ongoing voters registration for continuation of good governance in Enugu State.