Paul Osuyi, Asaba Following the successful take-off of academic activities at the Maritime University at Okerenkoko in Gbaramatu Kingdom, in Delta State, a group, the Niger Delta Indigenous Movement for Radical Change (NDIMRC) has called on the Federal Government to construct the road from Warri to the permanent site of the institution. The group while commending the government for the smooth commencement of academic activities, appealed to the Timipre Sylva-led Governing Council to do everything possible for teaching and learning conducive for both lecturers and students.  The group’s appeal was contained in a press statement signed by its president, Nelly Emma, secretary, John Sailor and public relations office Stanley Mukoro. “We are using this medium to call on the Chairman of the Governing Council of the University to prevail on the Federal Government to construct a road from Warri to the permanent site of the University. There should be no politics on this matter. Now that the university has kicked off, we must put all sentiments aside and do the needful for the university. “We have implicit confidence that with a road constructed from Warri to the permanent site of the university, development will spread rapidly to the area and other parts of the Niger Delta Region. “With a man like Chief Timipre Sylva from the Niger Delta Region who knows the pains of people of the region, getting a road from Warri to the permanent site of the university will not be a problem. We therefore call on him to push for it and make it happen in his time. “A road from Warri to the permanent site of the university will not only encourage parents from any part of the world to send their children to the university, it will also attract investors to the Niger Delta region. “The establishment of the university and a road down from Warri to the permanent site will also consolidate on existing peace in the oil rich Niger Delta region,” the statement read. It further urged the Governing Council chairman, Mr. Sylva to prevail on the President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government to mobilize contractors handling the construction of the permanent site of the university back to site to continue from where they were stopped when the current administration came into office. “The contractors should be allowed to go back to site as soon as possible now that academic activities have commenced. The people of the region will forever be grateful to the President and Chairman of the Governing Council if construction works are allowed to commence immediately at the permanent site of the university,” it added.   