Magnus Eze, Enugu Privately developed estates are springing up daily in Enugu, the capital city of Enugu State, courtesy of the atmosphere provided by the current administration in the state. The Governor, Chief Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, has again, pledged to support the construction of yet another estate, this time round, the first solar-powered estate being built by Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Cooperative Society in partnership with Geometrix Homes and Estates Ltd. He made the pledge when the National Executive Committee of the CBN Cooperative, led by its President, Isa Aminu Buhari, and the management of Geometrix Homes and Estates Ltd paid him a courtesy call at the Lion Building, Enugu. While briefing the governor, Buhari said the project, which is one of the first set to be built across the states with their partner, Geometrix Homes and Estates Ltd, was designed to be environmentally friendly and will solve the perennial energy problem afflicting most homes in Nigeria due to fossil fuel powered energy source. The solar city project that will be flagged off by the governor in the first week of June is situated at the reserved section of the Emene Industrial Layout. It is the second of a series of solar-powered estates to be developed across the country by the CBN Cooperative in partnership with Geometrix Homes and Estates Ltd. The proposed estate comprising over 170 plots sitting on a land area of over 14 hectares, will be a fenced and gated neighbourhood with asphalted streets, good drainage and well landscaped lawns. Other facilities such as internet backbone, security and cleaning services, will be provided, while all the houses within the estate will be powered by solar energy along with street lights. Buhari further explained that the project plan includes the construction of an 18km state government road from Innoson Junction along Abakiliki Road to the estate site that will equally be provided with solar street lights. He thanked the governor for his laudable developmental projects especially in the area of infrastructural development and housing, which has enabled the state to be an investment destination in the South East. He also appealed to the governor to facilitate the smooth take off of the project especially in the area of statutory approvals, security and inter-agency cooperation. In his own remarks, CEO/MD of Geometrix Homes and Estates Ltd., Uche Uche, said they were in the state to help develop and beautify Enugu, the state capital, adding that the concept of solar-powered estate was coming to the state for the first time and hoped that it will usher in a new era of eco-friendly and sustainable dwelling concepts within the state. He promised to deliver the project with quality materials and within the specified period.