Fred Ezeh and Gracia Iroaja, Abuja The International Gospel Bishops’ Organization (IGBO) said on Wednesday that Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari has fulfilled the promises he made to Nigerians in the course of seeking election in 2015. To this end, the umbrella body of gospel bishops in Nigeria said that President Buhari deserves to be commended and supported instead of the barrage of criticisms that have become a source of distraction to his administration. The presiding president of the organization, Bishop Sylvanus Ofili, told journalists at the end of their 2018 international retreat in Abuja, that the group has critically analyzed the activities of the government in the past three years and is giving it a “pass mark”. The Christian leaders were particularly impressed with the way the government has handled issues of insecurity and corruption which has been reflected in robust economic growth. Bishop Ofili, however, observed that, “we might not be where we ought to be as a nation, but we are definitely not where we were few years ago. It is an indication that tremendous success has been achieved. “The government has equally shown serious commitment to the fight against corruption in public service. Insecurity has also received adequate attention and that had resulted in the obvious success recorded thus far in the fight against Boko Haram and other security issues.” Ofili appealed to Nigerians to quit unnecessary criticisms that could demoralize political leaders, but offer support, encouragement and prayers so they could succeed in its quest to restore the lost glory and dignity of the country. “It is unfortunate that some Nigerians have turned their eyes and faces away from the good works of government and dwell on its shortcomings. That is against the scriptural injunctions that asked us to pray for our leaders irrespective of their shortcomings.” He advised Nigerians to prepare adequately ahead of the 2019 general elections by joining political parties and participate deeply in the selection process of leaders. He also asked Nigerians get their Permanent Voter Card (PVC) and use it wisely when it comes time to voting.