Laide Raheem, Abeokuta The governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ogun State in 2015, Gboyega Nasir Isiaka, has resigned his membership of the party. In his resignation letter dated May 24 and addressed to the chairman of PDP in the state, a copy which was obtained by our correspondent, Isiaka said the decision was hard for him, pointing out “the crisis rocking the party in the state had proved intractable ahead of another general elections”. The 2019 gubernatorial aspirant, who had equally contested the governorship in 2011 and 2015, added he was leaving the PDP to continue his partisan political career “by charting a new course”. He, however, lamented that genuine steps taken by few patriots within the party to mend the fault lines and return it to glory days had fallen through. The letter partly read, “I am using this medium to convey the decision to resign my membership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), effective from today 24th May, 2018. “This has not been an easy one for me as I recall with nostalgia, the opportunities and privileges which the membership of this party conferred on my political career; the peak of which was the kind consideration given me to be the flag bearer of the PDP in the last gubernatorial election in Ogun State. “You will recall that the PDP, especially in our state, has been through a rough patch in the last couple of years, and after two successive electoral losses, the search for lasting peace is still elusive. Despite the genuine steps taken by few patriots within the party to close up the fault lines and return the party to glory days, all have been to no avail. “With another election on the horizon and the perennial challenges of the party festering and proving to be intractable, I am left with no other choice but to continue my partisan political career by charting a new course where my philosophies and beliefs are aligned with good democratic ethos for the ultimate aim of promoting a better society.” Meanwhile, in a telephone interview with our correspondent on Friday on GNI’s next political move, one of his media aides, Wale Junaid, stated that his principal is committed to contesting and winning the 2019 governorship in the state. Junaid stated that the issue of whether the two-time gubernatorial candidate would join another political party or not would be addressed at the appropriate time. He, therefore, restated Isiaka’s commitment to running a welfarist and people-centred administration when he emerges as governor next year. 