Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja The Federal Government, on Wednesday, commissioned three Ecological Fund Projects in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. This was even as it has assured that no part of the country will suffer any neglect owing to its geographical location or political consideration. Secretary to the Government of the Federation (OSGF), Boss Mustapha, commissioned the three projects – Gully Erosion Control Works at Veritas University, Bwari, Abuja; Reconstruction of damaged Culvert and Road improvement Works at Saburi, Abuja Municipal Area Council, and Jikwoyi Gully Erosion and Flood Control Works, Abuja. Mustapha explained that the Federal Government’s execution of the Ecological intervention projects across the country, was a demonstration of Buhari’s administration sincerity towards entrenching justice, equity and fair play to all and sundry. The SGF added that the Veritas university community faced challenges because of bad roads and gully and soil erosion. According to Mustapha intervention was therefore intended to bring relief to the sufferings of the university community and improve the learning environment. He charged the members of the community to take up the responsibility for maintaining and protecting the project and prevent indiscriminate dumping of refuse in the constructed drainage channels. He commended the Emir of Bwari, Alhaji Mohammed Awal Ijakoro and members of the university community for providing a rancour-free environment during the execution of the project. In his remarks, the Vice-Chancellor of the University, Micheal Kwanashie thanked President Buhari for the intervention project in the University, saying it has brought relief to the community and afforded a more conducive atmosphere for learning. He appealed to the Government to ensure the completion of the entire scope of the works covering more stretches of degraded land within the university, adding that the school was open to all Nigerians regardless of their faith or state, and that school fees were considerably affordable, to ensure that the poorest of the poor in the society attained University Education. The Chairman of Bwari Area Council Dr. Musa Dikko stated that the completion and the handover of the project had put a lie to claims that the Federal Government had not performed. He pledged the support of his people for President Muhammadu Buhari’s re-election. At the Saburi project site, Mustapha said the project which was completed five months ago was intended to reconstruct damaged culverts and properly channel waste and flood water into a safe discharge point. This was to prevent Erosion and flooding within the community and to protect lives and properties. The scope of the project also included road improvement works to ease pedestrian and vehicular access to the community. The community hitherto was experiencing serious flooding, environmental degradation and inaccessible road, which necessitated the prompt intervention from the Federal Government. Present at the occasion were the Permanent Secretaries in charge of the Cabinet Affairs Office, Barr. Ehuria Georgina, Special Services Office, Mr. Alo Williams, General Services Office, Olusegun Adekunle Esq, and Ecological Fund Office, Dr. Habiba Lawal.