Layi Olanrewaju, Ilorin National leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and members of the new PDP (nPDP) will meet later, on Monday, in a last minute effort to contain agitation from the nPDP. Former Acting chairman of nPDP,  Alhaji Abubakar Kawu Baraje, who made this known, in an interview with the newsmen in Ilorin,  Kwara State, on Monday, said the meeting was slated for 2.00p.m. Baraje, who decried the high rate of internal  conflicts within the ruling APC, which has culminated in parallel state congresses in about 21 states, said the nPDP’s recent letter to the leadership of the APC was to forestall such occurrences. While pointing out that the Peoples  Democratic Party (PDP)  never had such internal wrangling  as is today prevalent in the APC,  Baraje warned that if the APC failed to heed the request of the nPDP, then its forthcoming  national convention might become an avenue to wash its dirty linens openly. He expressed concern over the path being treaded by leaders of the APC, lamenting that what members of the nPDP are witnessing in the APC are worse than what they experienced in the PDP. He said the nPDP was made up of men and women who cannot  be pushed aside and referred to the resignation of the group’s secretary  and former governor of Osun state,  Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola, as signal to what may happen if  members are not able to convince their followers about the need to remain in the APC. But he said nPDP members would not immediately pull out of the APC if the party fails to meet their  demands, saying like they did in the last administration they would still go ahead and meet with several  leaders across the country to stop what he termed as impunity within the party. He added, “The last time we met here( Baraje’s house) in 2016 I told you that the way the party was going  on we were on the road to perdition. “if you look at the letter  we wrote  we never said we gave ultimatum but that we advised them;  we hinted the party because  of the ongoing  primaries of the party. Now the party has invited us, exactly on the seventh day of the letter  and they  wanted us to meet  that same day but because we were speaking for several leaders across the country we told them we couldn’t meet that same day so now they have scheduled  a meeting for tomorrow (Monday)  anytime from 2:00p.m.” He dismissed the opposition of the group, led by Sen. Abdullahi  Adamu to the petition  by the nPDP, saying the nPDP was such a large group that it cannot but have some black legs. “We have travelled a long way with the APC and now we are seeing  things worse in APC than in PDP. If we are leaders worth the name we should  be bold enough to speak about it”, he said.