Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State has asked former governor of the state, Kayode Fayemi, to stop bragging about the use of federal might to win the July 14 governorship election, saying God’s might is bigger than all. This was just as Governor Fayose has described Fayemi, current Minister of Solid Minerals, a failure for not being able to attract one federal project to the state after almost three years in office. He stated this in Ado-Ekiti on Tuesday when the Muslim Community in the state held a gathering to appreciate the appointment of one of them, Kazeem Deji Ogunsakin, as the deputy governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In a statement by the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Mr Idowu Adelusi, he quoted the governor as saying that the choice of Prof, Kolapo Olusola Eleka as the PDP governorship candidate and Ogunsakin as his deputy, was divine. “I know that this is God’s project and cannot fail. Those bragging about one might or the other are only deceiving themselves. We are firmly on a solid ground with God. I have done my part and I want the Muslim Community to go all about and spread the news. He is a vibrant young man and with the support of the people we are coasting home to victory come July 14,” he said. In his remarks, the Chief Imam of Ekiti State, who is also the Chairman, League of Imams in Yorubaland including Delta and Edo States, Sheikh Jamiu Kewulere Bello, described Fayose as a promise keeper. “The governor made four promises to the Muslim Community and he has fulfilled three. The third one is what we are witnessing and appreciating today and we know he will fulfill the last one. We said we will support whoever picks a Muslim as his deputy and we thank God that Governor Fayose has done us proud. We are happy that the governor values us. You will succeed in this enterprise. We still have much to do and we will not disappoint in that respect,” he said. In his remarks, Ogunsakin described Fayose as a leader worthy of emulation. ” Governor Fayose is not one of those leaders who would label youths as lazy and not give them the opportunity to shine and use their talents. He is my political leader and mentor who brought me up. I won’t disappoint the people of the state, our party and our great leader, Governor Ayodele Fayose. As a young man, I am not lazy and I say our youths are not lazy as some people would want the world to believe,” he said. The PDP governorship aspirant, Prof Eleka, said he and Ogunsakin would be faithful and not disappoint the people of the state and the confidence reposed in them.