Bamigbola Gbolagunte, Akure A presidential aspirant under the platform of the National Conscience Party (NCP), Dr. Thomas-Wilson Ikubese, on Monday, announced his defection from the party. Ikubese, however, failed to announce his new party, saying that the new party would be a coalition formed among the existing political parties. He lamented that the party founded by late rights activist, the late Chief Gani Fawehinmi has derailed from the vision of its founder, adding that the party lacks internal democracy. Ikubese, who addressed a press conference, in Akure, the Ondo State capital, on Monday, alleged that the leaders of the party were now involved in undemocratic tendencies. It would be recalled that Ikubese declared his presidential ambition on July 24, 2017 under the platform of the NCP. He also alleged that the National Chairman of the party, Dr. Yinusa Tanko and the National Secretary, Mr. Ayodele Akerele unilaterally imposed levy on aspirants contrary to the provisions of the party’s constitution. This, he alleged was aimed to pave way for Tanko to emerge as the presidential candidate of the party. Ikubese, who said he joined NCP on September 16, 2017, disclosed that the leadership of the party recently mandated presidential aspirants who joined the party less than two years ago to pay #7.4 million each, saying that the decision was to truncate his ambition. This, he said was in contravention to the age-long tradition “laid down by Chief Gani Fawehinmi that party members who seek to run for offices should do so at no cost, as a populist Party, as to encourage the masses to participate actively in politics.” His words, “The argument advanced by the duo is that this money will serve to finance the Party. Conversely, however, Article 9.4.1 of the constitution of the NCP clearly stipulates how the party shall raise funds. “Nowhere is it stated in the constitution that funds shall be generated by levying aspirants mandatorily. “This action is in further breach of Article 4.1.3 (c) of the NCP constitution which stipulates that a national congress must be convened to discuss the affairs of the party and to take such decisions and or give general guidelines as may be necessary for the progress and proper working of the party. “A national congress was not called, as this decision was taken exclusively by the National Chairman and General Secretary. Tanko formally declared to run for the office of the President on the 23rd April 2018, without resigning his position as the National Chairman. “As at today, he doubles as the National Chairman and a Presidential aspirant of the NCP to the disadvantage of any other aspirant in the party who will be “screened” by a committee that will ultimately report to him. He thus upholds the power to approbate and reprobate. “You cannot be in charge of the party, control its machinery and resources and also be an aspirant without fairness, justice and equity being compromised. Tanko erected a barricade, mandating me to pay N7.04million as a presidential aspirant, while he is not making any such payment, even though we are running for the same office. “Since the National Chairman and General Secretary of the party have obviously compromised the integrity for which the party is known, I hereby withdraw my membership of the NCP forthwith. “For if I remain in the party, it is obvious that the duo will use the party machinery to the advantage of Tanko. And should I defeat him in the primaries, he and his accomplices will most likely work against me in the general election. “For me, I shall move on and continue to join forces with genuine progressive-minded individuals and groups to birth the new Nigeria of our dream. A New Nigeria is possible, and together we can,” he added. He, however, urged members of the NCP to rise and protect the legacy of justice and equity, which the founder, Chief Fawehinmi stood for when alive.  