George Onyejiuwa and Stanley Uzoaru, Owerri Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha, has vowed not to leave the All Progressives Congress (APC), which he claimed to be one of its founders in the state. He said when he took the mainstream of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) to join the merger that gave birth to APC, he was not under any pressure to do so, adding that he even made the move at the risk of his second tenure as governor. Governor Okorocha, who said this in a press statement he issued through his Chief Press Secretary, Sam Onwuemeodo, added that he became the propeller of APC in the state and the whole of South East by mobilising people for the party in Imo, Ebony, Abia, Enugu, and Anambra states. He added that he became the rallying point of the party in the overall interest of the South East and APC.
The statement said: “If Governor Okorocha did not take a good percentage of APGA members to APC, the party would not have had the kind of national spread it has today. For that reason, they called him all sorts of derogatory names which Nigerians know, including Alhaji in Government House, Okoro-Hausa and Rochas Buhari. “When APC came for campaign in 2015, in Imo and all the states in the South East, he was the point man. Today, APC has become the party to envy. Nobody is talking about Okorocha and Buhari going to use APC to Islamise the Igbo.
“Today, the same people who called him names have begun to market falsehood against him, including the fake story of his leaving APC for APGA. All these show the level of frustration on the side of the 10-man coalition. They are being hunted by their inglorious actions. “One may also wish to know that while the unfounded story of the governor leaving APC is yet to dry, they have also come up with another one, that the governor is in coma. These people do not know God and, of course, they are afraid of both the present and the future.” Okorocha said he won’t allow his detractors to reap where they never sowed and added that their deceit would expire in no distant time. “No landlord leaves his house for unfaithful tenants. The name Okorocha is the fibre of APC in Imo and the whole of South East. And anybody who says it is not true should tell Nigerians why it is only in Imo you have APC governor, 24 out of the 27 House of Assembly members, three House of Representatives members and one senator, in the whole of South East. Time will tell what happens in APC in Imo and the whole of South East,” the statement said.