…Explains challenge with police Uche Usim, Abuja The Accountant-General of the Federation (AGF), Mr. Ahmed Idris, has disclosed that 480 Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) and 650,000 federal workers are currently on the  Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS), even as he expressed the commitment  of the Treasury under his leadership to fully implement all the Public Finance Management (PFM) reforms as directed by President Muhammadu Buhari. Receiving the National Coordinator and Chief Executive Officer of SERVICOM, Mrs. Nnenna Akajemeli and the management team of SERVICOM in his office in Abuja, the AGF also spoke on the challenges faced by his office with regard to the enrollment of the Nigeria Police Force  on the IPPIS platform He explained that since the police newly migrated their salaries to the IPPIS platform, and given their numerical strength and other peculiarities some anticipated teething hiccups cropped up. “There are  bound to be some challenges. These challenges  are being resolved through the multiple help desks established in the Treasury and other police commands across the nation” Idris stated. On shotfalls in payments, the AGF explained that it may not be unconnected with a number of statutory deductions which are on the platform, like the  National Housing Fund, (NHF) which is 2.5 per cent of basic and tax which is also calculated according to one’s earnings, but was   previously not properly deducted. He assured Nigerians, especially those working in the public service, of the commitment of the Treasury to partner with all relevant stakeholders to actualise a seamless implementation of the IPPIS, adding that plans were afoot to commence migration of  the military on the IPPIS platform. He, therefore, called for the understanding and co-operation of all stakeholders to improve public finance management in the country. He noted that the office being a service-oriented organisation, whose dual role as the Accountant-General of the Federation and the Federal Government is very committed  to delivering on government’s plans and programmes.
Earlier in her address, the SERVICOM Co-ordiantor, Mrs. Akajemeli expressed satisfaction with the activities of the Accountant-General of the Federation in the discharge of his duties. “We want to appreciate and commend you for the timely release of funds and salaries and for the good job you are doing to entrench transparency and accountability in the running of government business. “We also appreciate all the reforms which you are implementing and we attest that they  are in line with the SERVICOM principles and practices, transaprency, improved efficiency, service delivery and value for money” the SERVICOM Co-ordinator maintained. Akajemelia further revealed  that in view of the observations they have made as they monitor service delivery in the MDAs,  SERVICOM intends to institute a reward system for all MDAs that excel in delivering service for the Nigerian people.
According to her, SERVICOM will soon make public the criteria for the awards and urged all public officers to ensure that true service to the people remains their guiding principle. 