Ben Dunno, Warri The All Progressives Congress (APC) ward congress held in the 25 local government areas of Delta State, last Saturday, has been adjudged as free, fair and peaceful exercise across the state based on the adoption of a ‘Unity List’ approved by stakeholders for the congress. Sources close to the party who spoke with Our Correspondent in Udu Local Government Area of the state, disclosed that the decision to adopt the ‘Unity List’, was reached by the party leadership few days to the congress to avoid a repetition of the crisis experienced during the Ward Congress in the state. Our Correspondent who monitored the election in Delta South and Central senatorial district which comprises of the three (3) Warri Council areas as well as Ughelli, Udu, Sapele, Uviwe, LGA of the state, on Saturday reports that the outcome of the congress was generally peaceful throughout the state. Speaking to newsmen at the Ughelli party Secretariat, the APC Chieftain in the state, Olorogun O’tega Emerhor, said he was impressed with the peaceful atmosphere the election was conducted. He also thanked the party members across the state for supporting the party leadership to ensure that the unity in the party remain intact. According to him, “You could witness that the congress was peaceful and the reason for the peaceful congress was because the leaders ammonised and came up with a unity list to organise the congress”. “In Ughelli north, we reconciled all interest and we came here to just do an affirmation and that is what is taking place all over the Also speaking the delegates sent from the party national Secretariat in Abuja to conduct the Ughelli North Congress, Mr. Daniel Ekori, Hon. Wisdom Ghaghara and Comr. Francis Okolosi also acknowledged that the local government Congress was peaceful as winners emerged without issues. According to Ekori who led the team, ” We are particularly happy  that the congress in Delta state ended peacefully this time around and we sincerely want to thanks the party members especially the leaders who have made this possible. Our job has been made easy going by tgr understanding displayed by the various stakeholders” “We will report back to Abuja where the results collated and agreed upon by all the stakeholders would be ratified”. 