NAN Nigerian internationals Oghenyi Onazi, Ola Aina and Akwa United FC Chairman, Paul Bassey, are confident that the Super Eagles will surprise many at this year’s World Cup in spite perceived doubts. Onazi, Aina and Bassey spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday in Uyo where the Eagles also have their training camp preparatory for the World Cup. The Eagles midfielder, however, admits that the World Cup which begins on June 14 in Russia is no child’s play because big teams and big footballers will compete for honours. “But we want to respect them, we want to do our best. The mood in camp now is that everyone is in high spirit. “Thank God that we don’t have injury concerns. We are recovering from injuries we had,’’ Onazi told NAN. “Everybody is waiting and hoping that we start on a very high note. This is my second appearance in World Cup. Of course, you learn from the first World Cup. “What you could not do the first time out, you have to do that now and make sure you make the difference.’’ Aina also said that though the Mundial would be his first time out if selected to make the final cut, no player in the Eagles camp is fearful of other teams in the group. “I don’t think anybody in our team fears anybody in the other team. You are playing against 11 players. “Also, I do not have any regrets in opting to play for Nigeria instead of England. It was a straight forward decision for me and my family. “We discussed. It is good for me and I am happy I did that,’’Aina said. He said that there were many good Nigerians in England who would want to wear the national colours of Nigeria’s national teams, adding that it was up to them to make their decisions. “It is not for the nation to say come and play; you have to decide to come and play for your country,’’ he said. For Paul Bassey, the Eagles need all our prayers in our group which includes Argentina, Croatia and Island. “I don’t predict matches but sometimes they put you in a group that you can easily get out of. In our group, we need prayers. “According to bookmakers, we don’t have a chance since we are the lowest ranked in the group. But we have a bunch of good players who are determined, hungry to excel. “They want to use this World Cup as a pedestal to greater things and they are playing regularly, so I have a lot of hope,’’ he said. He said that at Akwa United players were also hungry to excel in spite of recent failures on the continent, adding: “I believe we will get there’’ he said.