The National chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, has charged the people of Osun State to use their PVCs to chase out the All progressives Congress (APC) and save Nigeria democracy. Prince Secondus told jubilant crowd of PDP members and supporters at the freedom park, in Osogbo, Osun state capital on Saturday that all hands must be on deck to get APC out of our political life. According to a statement from the National Chairman’s media office signed by Ike Abonyi, Prince Secondus charged Osun PDP to unite among themselves and return the state to the party where it rightly belong. He said that the tyrannical attitude being deployed on democratic institutions like the National Assembly and the opposition would not save the ruling APC from Nigerian voters who have been at the receiving end since 2015 and have made up their minds that enough s enough. Prince Secondus said that no amount of intimidation will deter the PDP from mobilizing Nigerians to do away with the APC. “No amount of antics and harassment will discourage us because we are doing the desires of Nigerians “APC government has destroyed this country and made life meaningless p, we have no alternative than to kick them out. The National Chairman asked the people to use the September gubernatorial election to make bold statement that Osun state belongs to the PDP. Prince Secondus received over 8,000 defectors from the ruling APC in the state including two seating state assembly members. Three top PDP Presidential Aspirants for 2019 general election, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, former Governors of Jigawa and Kaduna states Sule Lamido and Ahmad Makarfi respectively and Serving Governors , Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti and Emmanuel Udom of Akwa Ibom state were among top PDP chieftains that graced the rally. The National Organizing Secretary NOS Col Austine Akobundu rtd said the Osun rally is one of the many mass mobilization rally aimed at receiving returnees to the party as well as mobilize members into the rebranded PDP ahead of 2019.