George Onyejiuwa, Owerri Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha, has said the Rescue Mission administration has declared total war against drug abuse in the state, in line with the vision of Police Officers’ Wives Association (POWA). Okorocha, who said this yesterday, when the wife of the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Asmau Ndayako Idris, paid him a courtesy visit at the Government House, Owerri, said the state government holds the Nigeria Police in high esteem, because of the sacrifices they have been making for the country and the citizenry. The governor, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Sir George Eche, said: “In Imo, we are working with the vision of POWA in eradicating drug abuse, child trafficking and illiteracy in our state. Imo is the only state in Nigeria that is offering free education from primary to tertiary. This has helped in reducing child abuse to the barest minimum, as it is a crime for any child to be out of school in Imo State. “In the area of drug abuse, Imo State is equally about the only state that has a senior appointee charged with the responsibly of checking the sale and consumption of illicit drugs and drug abuse. The government will surely partner you in this regards. “The presence of the police force in Imo State has expanded. I am aware that we have Nigeria Police College of Administration and Logistics in Ogboko, a Police Specialist Hospital and with the help of the IG, the second Mopol base in Imo has been actualised. We owe him great respect.” Mrs. Idris, in her speech said: “Powa is a non-governmental and non-profit oriented association, whose major aim and objectives are anchored on reaching out to the less-privileged ones and giving back to humanity. “We are here in Imo State on a mission to campaign against drug abuse, child trafficking, abuse and molestation, among others. And the government, as an institution, can’t do it alone, so, we are willing and ready to collaborate with government to fight this menace in our society. “We are calling on Imo Governor Okorocha, who is a well known philanthropist and humanist to give us a voice as his voice will be a big boost to the campaign against drug abuse and illiteracy in the state.”