The Federal Government has been urged to find lasting solution to the recurring herdsmen, farmers crisis rocking the country as the nation marches towards another round of general election next year. The urged came from the First African Church Mission at its General Council Session held at Jehovah Shammah Cathedral of the Church, in Lagos. Which ended on Sunday. In a communiqué issued at the end of the session and signed by Bro. Barr. Bayo Jones, Chairman, Bro. Tola Akinwande and Most Rev. Dr. O. C. John, the church, however, commended the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government towards ensuring the indivisibility of the country. The communiqué read, “ The session congratulates His Eminence, The Most Reverend Dr. S. O. Matilukuro JP, the Primate of the Mission, for the remarkable achievements so far recorded within his 18 months in office. The session extols the sterling qualities and dynamic leadership so far exhibited. “The Session commends the Federal Government’s efforts or fight against corruption in all spheres especially as the fight has been recognized and supported globally. The Session also commends the Federal Government on the exit of the country from recession that plagued the nation within a short time. “The Session commends the Federal Government for her efforts towards ensuring the indivisibility of the country. It observed that the country has been experiencing an unprecedented level of insecurity, ranging from the rampant violation of the rights of citizens, the indiscriminate killings of citizens by herdsmen especially within the Middle Belt and the attacks by insurgents in the North East Zone. “The Session used this opportunity to remind the Federal and State Governments on the need to ensure the enthronement of a peaceful environment through the provision of adequate security before, during and after the forthcoming General Elections. “The Federal Government should as a matter of urgency arrest the spiraling inflation with a combination of macro and micro economic policies that will bring down inflation and the cost of goods. “The Federal Government should resolve quickly, the ongoing strike action in the health sector by reaching an enduring agreement with the health workers whilst simultaneously investing massively in the provision of infrastructure in the Health, Education, Agriculture and Transport Sectors of the economy.” 