Let’s get to know you personally. What are your names? Ifiok Effanga Tell us a bit more about your educational and family background? what were you like growing up ? I studied Mechanical Engineering at Petroleum Training Institute, Effurun, Delta State. I hail from Akwa Ibom State, from a family of six. What are your hobbies? Watching football, playing the Guitar and reading news. Career Talks How did this new creation ” Been a Guitarist” enter your mind for the first time? When did you develop your passion for music and playing Guitar? I started at a tender age when I was in the Church choir where I started singing Solfa Notations. Then after my SSCE, I decided to pick an interest in learning the guitar from a taxi driver in the year 2000. Our lessons used to be at night from 8:00pm to 10:00pm for two months before I stopped due to lack of funds to pay for more lessons. I continued to start playing for different churches to have access to their guitars and to improve my skills. Then I moved to Warri in 2003 for school and also used guitar as a back-up hustle then. In 2008, I came to Lagos to a reality show called ‘Star Quest’ and won with my group ‘Diamonds’. That was when I came into the industry and the journey with my guitar began. I have always wanted to be a brand to reckon with. Discuss the various projects you’ve worked on since you started till date? The first hit song I worked on was ‘Scape Goat’ by DBanj. Away and Applaudise Album by Iyanya. Kissing, Ferrari and others by Yemi Alade. All the guitars on Simisola Album by Simi. Gold Album by Adekunle Gold. Thankful and Ijele the Traveller Album by Flavour. Woju, Laye and GoodTime by Kiss Daniel. God Over Evertything (GOE) album by Patoranking. What inspires you? And how do you always differentiate your sound from others? All my life I’ve always asked myself why do people like George Benson, Earl Klugh are popular. Then I realised they have unique sounds that made them stood out. So, I decided to pay attention on how to make sure I have my own unique sound and started working on it. So, with time, people started telling me that they liked the way I sound rather than telling that I reminded them of someone. That was when I knew I got something different and unique and that has really helped my career. Did you have any experiences or encounters that reaffirmed your talent and made you realize this was what you should do long term? Yes! When I was in school, my colleagues always said to me ‘Bro this oyour guitar might take you farther than what you studying here’. But I needed to finish my studies so people won’t think I am an illiterate. What are your other plans yet to be unveiled this year? what does FIOKEE has in store for us? I’m working my projects now trying to represent Africa as a brand guitarist by bringing artists that I have worked with over the years to collaborate with make magic together. I have a song with Reeekado banks and Tiwa Savage called ‘Like’. Another one which I featured Flavour called ‘Very Connected’ and ‘Independent Woman’. FT Jumabee and I got more great collaborations this year. So, be on the lookout. To be a successful Artiste/Instrumentalist (Guitarist), what qualities and skills does one need to possess? You need to define yourself, create spare time to do something that has not been done before so that you can stand out from the crowd. You will definitely succeed through hard work and grace What’s the most interesting thing about you that we wouldn’t learn from this interview alone? Simplicity. If we finish this interview and you step outside the office and find a lottery ticket that ends up winning $10 million. Will you still continue with you Career or Ghost and start a new life? Lool. You people want to set me up abi? How can fans of good music and lovers of FIOKEE keep in touch with the brand? Well you can always keep in touch with me via my various social media accounts: facebook, twitter & Instagram – @Fiokee :’d love to connect with you too. So, feel free. Watch the visuals to ‘Like’ featuring Reekado banks, Fiokee and Tiwa Savage. This song has been topping Nigerian music charts for over two months now. WATCH THE VISUALS TO “LIKE” FEATURING REEKADO BANKS , FIOKEE AND TIWA SAVAGE. THIS SONG HAS BEEN TOPPING ALL NIGERIAN MUSIC CHARTS FOR OVER 2 MONTHS NOW..  WATCH THE VISUALS TO ” VERY CONNECTED” FIOKEE FEATURING FLAVOR HERE: YOU CAN ALSO STREAM AND DOWNLOAD ” VERY CONNECTED” FEATURING FLAVOR HERE
https://fanlink.to/FiokeeVeryConnected ALSO WATCH FIOKEE FEAT TEKNO – DURO GUITAR VERSION HERE: SUBSCRIBE TO FIOKEE’S YOUTUBE CHANNEL FOR MORE INTERESTING VIDEOS www.youtube.com/fiokeerecords