Aidoghie Paulinus, Abuja Nathaniel Sharibu, father of Leah Sharibu, the abducted Dapchi schoolgirl still held by Islamist terror group Boko Haram on account of her Christian faith, has said he has not received word from the Federal Government about the case. Speaking to Daily Sun, Mr Sharibu said he is yet to hear from the Nigerian government since the release of the other abductees. He pleaded with the Federal Government to do everything possible to ensure the release of his daughter. Boko Haram had on February 19 abducted 110 students from Government Girls Science Technical College in Dapchi, Yobe State. Following the outcry that greeted the abductions and government’s effort to secure the release of the Dapchi girls, 101 of the girls were released. Leah, a Christian, was reportedly held back by Boko Haram on account of her refusal to convert from to Islam. “I did not hear anything up till now. I did not hear anything from the government towards the release of Leah up till now. I don’t know anything, I don’t know anything,” Sharibu told Daily Sun during a telephone interview. “According to what the girls that were released from that place said, she is a Christian that is why she has never been released.” On efforts he had made to reach the government, Sharibu said he has been reaching the government only through the media, adding that he was unsure whether his outing in the media was getting to the authorities or not. On the mood of the family, Sharibu said they are very saddened over the development, saying “We are very, very sad. The mood is very poor in my family house.” Fifteen-year old Leah is the first daughter of Mr Sharibu, along with two siblings (a boy and a girl). Sharibu, however, said he was confident that his daughter will one day reunite with the family. “Yes, I am confident by the prayer of most Christians and other Muslim brothers. I am confident that she will return one day,” Sharibu declared. On his daughter’s refusal to convert to Islam, Sharibu said he was proud of Leah’s decision not to convert. “I am pleading with the government that they should do their possible best. As they did to release the other girls, they have to do it to release my own daughter for me. I am just pleading. I am just pleading with them,” Sharibu said.