Aidoghie Paulinus, Abuja The Archbishop Emeritus of Lagos, Cardinal Anthony Olubunmi Okogie, has told President Muhammadu Buhari that the country has had enough of the mass killings across the country. In a telephone interview with Daily Sun, Okogie further said across the length and breadth of Nigeria, people are fed up with the killings. Okogie’s warning is sequel to the peaceful march and prayer for Nigeria organized by Catholics in different dioceses across the country Tuesday. Read also: Catholic faithful shut down Abuja in protest Read also: Catholics urge FG to disarm herdsmen Read also: 10,000 Catholic faithful protest in Nsukka, call for immediate end to violence Read also: Catholics ground Yenagoa Read also: Ogun Catholic faithful protest herdsmen’s killings Okogie frowned at the attitude of the President towards the killings, saying that they were getting more frequent and out of hand. The Caridnal said the Catholic protests were to wake the President up to the seriousness of the state of security in the country, and for him to take decisive action. “As a good father, if somebody is disturbing you in your house, what will you do? Will you allow the person to continue to disturb you? “That is what we are saying. It is getting rampant and getting too much. Now, we are trying to make the head of state to do something, to wake up if he is asleep. It is annoying,” Okogie said. He expressed regret that in spite of the situation, the President is warming up for a second term in office. Okogie further regreted that Christians in government were keeping quiet over the killings. “Enough is enough! That is my message and the message of the people today: Enough is enough, because it can lead to something else. “Carnage is not good. Spreading blood all because… Then it means that a cow has more value than myself. We are not in India. This is Nigeria. “And you don’t even say a word. That means the cow is more valuable than me,” Okogie said, referring to the President’s supposed silence on the matter.