That was a couple from Lagos State. They also wanted to visit my hospital for further management, but when I told them I live in Abia State, they were disappointed. Then requested that I discuss tips and facts about hypertension and its management. Garbage in garbage out, has always been my precautionary rebuke to heavy consumers. If you consume a lot of junk food with reckless abandon, calling it good life. Of course the consequences will be unimaginable obesity, and a catastrophic hypertension. Some facts about Hypertension. According to Dr Gabi Williams – we now have enormous data on the prevalence of hypertension in Nigeria, following the comprehensive survey conducted on Non-Communicable Diseases(NCD), under the distinguished chairmanship of Prof O O Akinkugbe. The report of the committee confirmed the following; 1) One in every ten Nigerian adults has hypertension. 2) More than two-thirds of those with high blood pressure are not aware of the facts that they have hypertension. 3) Most of those affected, have mild hypertension and essentially free of symptoms. 4) Only one third of those with hypertension are under any form of treatment. 5) Only one third of those under treatment are adequately controlled. According to World Health Organisation (WHO) 6) Globally, 9.4 million people die every year, and 1.5 billion people world wide suffer because of high blood pressure or hypertension. It is the biggest single risk factor for death worldwide, causing heart disease, stroke and kidney disease and diabetes. 7) Hypertension affects approximately 50.3 million Nigerians, about 630 heart attacks and 850 strokes occur daily in Nigerian. This means that 20 people will suffer a stroke, and 10 people will have a heart attack every hour. Too scary for us not to pay attention to our health. 8) Hypertension is one of the leading causes of morbidity and death in adults over the ages of 50 – 55 years.
9) In World Health Organisation (WHO) Africa region, up to 50% of adults in many countries are estimated to have high blood pressure, and this proportion is increasing. 10) Normal adult blood pressure is defined as a blood pressure of 120 mmHg, when the heart beats (systolic), and a blood pressure of 80 mmHg, when the heart rests (diastolic). When systolic blood pressure is equal or to, or above 140 mmHg and/ or a diastolic blood pressure equal to or above 90 mmHg the blood pressure is considered to be raised or high. (11) Hypertension / High blood pressure is a chronic medical condition in which the blood pressure is elevated. Blood is carried from the heart to all parts of the body, in the vessels. Each time the heart beats, it pumps blood pushing against the walls of blood vessels (arteries), as it is pumped by the heart. The higher the pressure the harder the heart has to pump. (12) Many people have high blood pressure for years without knowing it. Most of the time, there are no symptoms, but when high blood pressure goes untreated, it damages arteries and vital organs. High blood pressure is often called the silent killer. (13) Sometimes hypertension causes symptoms such as headache, shortness of breath, dizziness, chest pain, palpitations of the heart and nose bleeds. However, most people with hypertension have no symptoms at all. (14) Every adult over 18 years of age should have routine blood pressure check-ups. All adults should have blood pressure checks at least once a year, especially if they have stressful occupations or a family history of hypertension. (15) People with high blood pressure, who also have high blood sugar levels or elevated blood cholesterol, face even higher risk of heart attacks and stroke. Therefore it is important that regular checks for blood sugar, cholesterol and urine albumin take place. (16) High blood pressure (hypertension) can quietly damage your body for years before symptoms develop, causing damage to your arteries, heart, brain, kidneys, eyes, even sexual dysfunction. (17) Suffering from high blood pressure is not an automatic death sentence. It can be managed by following these steps: a) rigorously maintain a healthy weight. b) stay physically active c) follow a healthy food plan, with foods lower in sodium and salt. d) drink in moderation. And e) take high blood pressure medication if it has been prescribed for you.
(18) The remarkable advances in therapy, have provided the new found capability for lowering blood pressure in almost every person with hypertension. Treatment with medication has shown a 30 – 45% reduction in stroke, a 20 – 25% reduction in heart attack, and a more than 50% reduction in heart failure. So please manage your weight, your blood pressure and your blood sugar, then you will live the long life God has magnanimously allocated you. Be medically guided. Please follow me on twitter ; @ _ DRSUN.