National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, has hailed the the just concluded Ekiti guber primary election, saying it was a consequence of the party re-branding and repositioning project that has proved to be on course. Prince Secondus said that the real winner from the exercise is democracy and not any individual as the PDP family in Ekiti would be healthier from the primary. In a congratulatory message he sent to Governor Ayodele Fayose and other leaders and members of PDP in Ekiti state soon after the primary, the National Chairman appreciated them for conducting themselves well. He charged them to note the pre- primary understanding that there will be no winner or loser but contestants all. In a statement from his media office signed by  Ike Abonyi, the National Chairman commended all those whose made huge sacrifice that helped to make the primary a success particularly Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State and his team who conducted the primary. He also commended in particular Senator Dayo Adeyeye for not only accepting the result but commending the process as free, fair and credible. Prince Secondus assured members and supporters of the party in the state and indeed nationally, that his campaign promises that the era of impunity and imposition of candidates in the party is gone remains and Ekiti is the first test case for us. He charged any member of the party desiring to fly the flag of the party at any level to return to the grassroots and market themselves because in a rebranded PDP ticket is not given in party offices but by the people at the field. The PDP leader warned the APC in Ekiti state not to create any nuisance in their frustration ahead of the July election as available intelligence shows that the opposition in the state is trying to launch havoc  just to disrupt the peaceful election. Prince Secondus finally urged PDP members in the state to remain vigilant and not relent until the final success is achieved in July.