Omodele Adigun In an effort to curb electronic frauds in the country, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has advocated constant monitor of bankers and other employees in the financial services sector. According to its Deputy Governor in charge of Operations, Mr Adebayo Adedibu, who stated this Thursday in Lagos at the Electronic Payments Incentive Scheme Efficiency Awards, some of the e-payment frauds in the banking sector were able to sail through because those handling sensitive activities connived to make it happen, otherwise “a number of these frauds would not have succeeded if the people involved did not take part,” he said. He then urged the operators to invest in technology and people to ensure quality service delivery to customers.
His words: “We can still prevent frauds by ensuring the integrity of our systems and of payment. The control recommendations coming from the CBN policies and regulations are not just for cosmetics. We should look at the real impacts on our business and help deliver high quality service to our customers without profit motives of these organizations. That demands certification for whatever technology that we are using to pass the service across. “Then more importantly is that of the integrity of people involved in our operations. We should start beaming more searches on people that handle sensitive activities in our organisations. And not just one off searches. It must be more regular and continuous searches because we have a lot of people with bad habits among us, particularly their selfish enrichment motives, rather than the success of the organisations where they work. A number of these frauds would not have succeeded if the people involved did not take part. “So the integrity of the system and of the people is very important to ensure prevention, reduction or total elimination of fraud cases in the industry. I would also implore the operators to continue to invest in technology and people to ensure that we improve the quality of our service delivery.”