NYTimes Harvey Weinstein turned himself in on Friday morning to be arrested by New York City detectives on charges that he raped one woman and forced another to perform oral sex on him. Around 7:30 a.m., he walked glumly into a police station house in Lower Manhattan, flanked by several detectives. Toting three large books under his right arm, he looked up without saying a word as a crush of reporters and onlookers yelled, “Harvey!” With camera shutters clicking closed and reporters shouting questions, the scene was a mirror image of the red carpets where Mr. Weinstein presided for decades as a movie mogul and king of Hollywood. But after years of harnessing his wealth and his influence in the movie industry to enforce a code of silence around his predatory behavior, and after withstanding an investigation into groping allegations only three years ago, Mr. Weinstein faced the first criminal charges in a monthslong investigation into his conduct. Read also: New allegations against Hollywood mogul include forced oral sex, rape He will be processed at the station house, the First Police Precinct, and then be arraigned in court on charges of first-degree rape and third-degree rape in one case, and first-degree criminal sex act in another, law enforcement officials said. The criminal sex act charge stems from an encounter with Lucia Evans, who told The New Yorker and then investigators from the Manhattan district attorney’s office that Mr. Weinstein forced her to perform oral sex on him during what she expected would be a casting meeting at the Miramax office in TriBeCa. The victim in the rape case has not been publicly identified. Mr. Weinstein has been accused of sexually harassing and assaulting movie stars and employees of his former namesake company over the course of decades and then paying them or coercing them to stay silent. Mr. Weinstein’s lawyer, Benjamin Brafman, declined to comment on Thursday. In the past, he has said that Mr. Weinstein denies any allegations of “nonconsensual sex.” As part of a bail package negotiated in advance, Mr. Weinstein will put up $1 million in cash and will agree to wear a monitoring device. His travel will be restricted and he will surrender his passport.