•My fate in God’s hands –Speaker Heavily-armed policemen and another security agency have sealed Kano State House of Assembly.
The police sealed the Assembly complex in the early hours of yesterday, in company with some officers of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence corps (NSCDC). The armed policemen were deployed to the House at about 2:00am, to allegedly prevent members from gaining access into the complex. The deployment of the armed policemen may be connected to a move to remove Speaker Yusuf Abdullahi Ata and principal officers by some lawmakers. Reports indicated that the speaker had ordered for suspension of all activities in the House until after the Eid-El Kabir. Police Public Relations Officer, SP Magaji Musa Majia confirmed deployment of his men to the Assembly and added that they were there to maintain peace in the complex. “We deployed our men to the Assembly to ensure that nobody disrupts the peace. “We need peace in the state and therefore we will not allow anybody to tamper with existing peace and harmony being enjoyed by the people in the state.” Attah was sworn in, 10 months after the previous speaker resigned; following allegations of corruption. Now, his colleagues have accused him of incompetence and failure to carry everyone along. It was gathered that 21 members have signed a motion for his impeachment while six other signatures are still needed to remove him.
Regardless, Ata confirmed the plot in a statement, yesterday morning.
Ata said as a Muslim who believes in destiny, he will accept his impeachment in good faith, if God wills it. “In any thing in life, there is a starting point and the end. “If Allah has designed it that my time is off, nobody will extend it by a second. And, if it is not time, nobody can remove me from office, that is my belief.
“My happiness is that I didn’t not steal anybody’s money. So, if today, they remove me from office, I will leave. “I have a constituency that I am representing but, nobody will accuse me of stealing.”
He also said if the remaining six signatures are collected and all other impeachment procedures are completed, he would leave. Ata succeeded Kabiru Rurum, who resigned from office in July last year, following allegations of corruption levelled against him.