Paul Osuyi, Asaba No fewer than 24 persons in Delta State were evacuated dead from the scenes of fire incidents from May 2015 to date. However, 176 persons were rescued alive from the burning flames of fire outbreaks which consumed property worth over N13 million. Commissioner in charge of the Directorate of Special Duties in the state, Mr. Ernest Ogwezzy made this known in Asaba during a ministerial press briefing. He said the Directorate of Special Duties through the state fire service, attended to 794 distressed calls bothering fire outbreaks, out of which 63 were false alarm. According to him, the prompt response to calls of fire outbreaks by the fire service, saved property worth over N8 trillion. He listed some of the fire outbreaks in the state during the period to include the Anioma Petrol Station fire incident in Asaba, College of Education Cooperative Filling Station in Warri, PPMC Refinery in Ekpan, Ubeji tanker fire, Robinson plaza in Warri, Beta Glass Factory in Ughelli, Sapele main market and Asaba Aluminum Company. Ogwezzy stated that the fire service also generated revenue of N53 million for the state government through the issuance and renewal of fire safety certificate to petrol and gas stations, industries and other business premises. The commissioner further disclosed that the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) in discharging its mandate of bringing relief to disaster victims, inspected over 115 cases of fire outbreaks, 60 cases of rainstorm and over 2,500 cases of flood disaster during the period. He said SEMA has within the period “assisted victims of fire disaster. In all, a total sum of N8,160,000.00 was expended as assistance to 94 victims of fire disaster across the state. “Financial assistance was given to 53 victims of rainstorm in Obiaruku. In all, a total of N4,230,000.00 was expended as financial assistance to the victims. “Received 255 Deltans from NEMA at the Port-Harcourt International Airport amongst the Libya returnees that were massively deported back to Nigeria” in January and February, this year, adding that the returnees were transported to Asaba and provided some relief.