Linus Oota, Lafia Nasarawa State House of Assembly has approved the request by Governor Umaru Tanko Al-Makura authorizing the Federal Government to deduct the state share of one billion US dollars from the Excess Crude Account (ECA) for the procurement of military equipment to fight insurgency and other security challenges in the country. The Speaker of the state assembly, Hon Ibrahim Balarabe, stated this on Friday at the floor of the house after the majority leader, Alhaji Tanko Tunga (APC-Awe North), presented the governor’s letter during an emergency sitting in Lafia. He said the approval would go a long way in tackling the activities of the insurgents and other security challenges facing the country. His words: “Let me again read the governor letter: Request for resolution to deduct the Nasarawa State Government’s share of the sum of $1billion from the Excess Crude Account (ECA) for the procurement of military equipment to support the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in fighting insurgency and other security challenges in the country.” “We have approved the governor’s request considering the security challenges facing the country which our state is also affected. The role of security personnel cannot be over-emphasized, especially in the area of protection of lives and property of the citizens, as many lives have been lost and properties destroyed due to insecurity in the country.” Meanwhile, the House has also set up a three-man Adhoc committee to investigate the alleged involvement of Hon. Mohammed Kassim Mohammed (APC-Akwanga South), who led a protest to the National Headquarter of All Progressives Congress (APC), demanding the removal of Senator Osita Izunaso as the National Organising Secretary of the party. The action followed a matter of public interest brought by the majority leader of the House, Alhaji Tanko Tunga. Tunga said that Mohammed Kassim should be investigated as his alleged protest is capable of tarnishing the good image of the House and the state at large.