Charles Nwaoguji Technology has made easy for most entrepreneurs to have access to internet today. Thanks to the undisruptive nature of the internet, the rate of change has only increased exponentially in recent years. It is possible for entrepreneurs to invest in online platform and make a lot of money. Most of our youths who are not doing anything could get involved in the online business and make a living. Apart from that, it will also make them to gain access to the global population through mediums such as social media and online search, many people are still left perplexed by how they can utilise the powerful technology available through the internet, to actually make money online. It’s  easy making money online today when compared with the past. Although, there are so many competition out there, whatever you start you will still find your way through. It may  not be easy at the beginning but as you continue, success will be yours. It takes an enormous amount of effort and authority-building before you can really start getting rich through your online income-producing activities. However, there are some basic methods for making a respectable amount of cash in the short term. Now, making money online should seem like a pleasurable activity. Every successful business has delivered a tremendous amount of value at the outset. It requires  hard work, resilience and dedication.   As long as you keep all these  in mind, you’ll succeed in the long term. Here are the various ways any entrepreneur can make money from online business: Write and sell an e-book One of the ways to make money online today is your ability to write and sell an e-book in the internet. While the market has certainly become saturated as of late, books that help teach people about a technical topic still sell extremely well. This is a great source of passive income but does require a large amount of effort at the outset before any money is generated. You can sell your ebooks through  connect, which gives you access to a large majority of the digital-book reading market and the barriers for entry are incredibly low. You don’t need to invest lots of money to make this happen, but you do need to invest lots of time, not only in writing the ebooks, but in marketing them as well. Sell audio books with audible Another area which would earn you an  income is for you to start selling audio books.  Audiobooks  are fast growing business in today’s world. People are turning to audio and visuals when it comes to technical subjects. However, you should consider doing an ebook first and turning it into an audiobook through a resource like audible Create an app Yes, this is far more technical. Unless you have the right app-development skills, doing this is going to be a significant undertaking. But, apps are also a great source  when done the right way. You can reach a massive audience of smartphone users by building a great app. However, like anything else truly worthwhile, apps require a significant investment of your time or money upfront. If you don’t have the skills, then you have to hire someone who can assist you in creating a great app. But first you need to come up with an idea that will sell. Do the proper market research and analytics to come up with the right app. Use mechanical turk The Mechanical Turk is Amazon’s take on micro-jobs. These are small miniscule-jobs that you can do for other people, which they call HITs, or Human Intelligence Tasks. These are super simple tasks that anyone can do. Some examples are listing off some URLs with certain kinds of images for one cent, or recording a few phrases with a microphone for 6 cents. Yes, they don’t pay much, but if you string together hundreds of well-paying HITs, you can make a bit of money quickly online if you’re in a crunch for cash. Also, it’s important to note that you can also employ people with HITs to help you with whatever micro-tasks you might have. Offer gigs on fiverr If you have some professional experience in graphic design, accounting, social media marketing, web development,  for example, you could offer gigs on Fiverr. You could perform a valuable service that you could also up-sell to make more money per gig. Fiverr is one of the biggest providers in the gig economy on the web and you can sell a wide variety of services and products through this medium. Do the research and find out what you can offer. However, keep in mind that like any other money-making task, it takes time to succeed here. And stellar reviews will help you generate more and more income over time. Sell professional services on Upwork or 99Designs Upwork and 99Designs are two of the biggest resources for selling just about any professional service. If you have extensive experience in a field, you might want to consider selling your services through one of these sites. 99Designs only applies to graphic design while Upwork applies to nearly every other professional service. However, like anything else, the beginning will be difficult. Before you have a significant track record and extensive reviews, sourcing work in one of these highly-competitive platforms will be difficult. Find the most successful people in your niche and try to model your approach and online profile after theirs. Build a blog One of the most exhaustive endeavors when it comes to making money online is to build a blog . But we all know that building a blog with real readership is difficult. It takes a lot of work. And I’m speaking from experience. However, once you reach a certain point, the progress and momentum sways in your favor and it becomes far easier. Blogs can easily generate money per month when done right. Yes, it is easy to get there. However, looking back on it, a year from now you’ll wish you started today. So why wait another moment. Email marketing Email marketing is at the heart of every successful endeavor on the web. For those serious about making money online, email marketing is certainly where it’s at. But it has to be done the right way. Before you even try to market anything to anyone via an email list, be sure that they’re people that subscribed and opted in directly to you. When you try to market to people via email out, you will find as much success. But, if those email subscribers are actively and keenly interested in what you have to say, and they signed up directly through your blog or site, your success rates will be much higher.