•Catholics protest, shut down Abuja Aidoghie Paulinus; Fred Ezeh, Abuja Archbishop Emeritus of Lagos, Anthony Cardinal Okogie, told President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, that Nigerians are fed up with the incessant killings across the country. Furthermore, Okogie told Daily Sun that the president’s silence towards the killings showed that a cow is more valuable than he is (Okogie). He reiterated that across the length and breadth of Nigeria, people are fed up with the killings and are looking up to the president to provide solutions. He spoke against the backdrop of a peaceful protest called by the Catholic Bishop conference across the country, yesterday.
The cleric also frowned at the president’s attitude, and insisted that the killings were getting too much. “As a good father, if somebody is disturbing you in your house, what will you do? Will you allow the person to continue to disturb you? “That is what we are saying. It is getting rampant and getting too much. Now, we are trying to make the Head of State to do something; to wake up, if he is asleep. It is annoying,” he said.
Okogie further added that people, across the country, are already annoyed and that the situation can lead to something else. He expressed regret that despite the situation, the president is warming up for a second term in office.
Okogie also expressed regret that Christians in government are keeping quiet over the killings going on in the country.
“Enough is enough! That is my message and the message of the people, today. Enough is enough because it can lead to something else. “Carnage is not good. It means that a cow has more value than myself. We are not in India. This is Nigeria. And, you don’t even say a word. That means the cow is more valuable than me,” Okogie reiterated. In a related development, Catholic priests and other senior clergymen in the Catholic Archdiocese of Abuja, started the protest with a Holy Mass at the National Christian Centre, which terminated at Our Lady Queen of Nigeria Catholic Church, Garki Area 3, Abuja.
In John Cardinal Onaiyekan’s absence, Auxiliary Bishop of Abuja Archdiocese, Bishop Anslem Umoren, took charge of proceedings, with the help of other senior priests. The protest resulted in gridlock across the Federal Capital Territory. Primate of the Anglican Church of Nigeria, Nicholas Okoh, and other Christians from other denominations participated in the exercise.
Director of Communication of the Abuja archdiocese, Rev. Fr. Patrick Alumuku, told newsmen that the procession/protest was necessitated by inability of government to act on several verbal and written complaints by the church; with regards to insecurity and bad governance in Nigeria. 