Jeff Amechi Agbodo, Onitsha The Obi of Onitsha, Igwe Alfred Nnaemeka Achebe, on Tuesday, warned various church denominations against rivalry and competition among the leaders of the church in Nigeria. The monarch described the in-fighting among the Christians as ‘lack of faith in Christ’ who should be emulated and whose vineyard the churches drives its strength and inspiration but charged them to be cooperative, humble as Christ did till death and resurrection. The monarch gave the charge when The Redeemed Christian Church of God Province 3 Anambra State (Province Destination), led by Pastor Robert Joshua Igbo, visited him in his palace at Onitsha, saying that churches should be united and have cordial relationship as one body in Christ to preach the gospel of the truth and salvation. He said: ” Jesus bind us together as Christians. We have to work in cooperation. We should not see rivalry among the churches as well as playing negative politics in the church. We should preach the gospel in low tune without disturbing others. “We should respect God and other human beings. We should stop fighting ourselves as Christians over who is bigger, stronger, richer and more powerful than others. Christians should not indulge into unnecessary competitions which has negative and positive, advantages and disadvantages effects”. Igwe Achebe said that Onitsha as an ancient city tolerates every religion, saying that the Onitsha  Mosque  has been there for over 100 years, stressing that Christianity especially the Anglican Church came into the city in 18th centuries and Catholic Church followed which he said made the people to embraced it early enough. Earlier in his remarks, Pastor Joshua Igbo said that they came to visit the Royal father to familiarise with him since the church created new province 3 for Onitsha, saying that they wanted to have cordial relationship with the traditional institution because according to him Christ said the church should pray for those in authorities of power. He said that the province would organize crusade alongside  medical outreach in Onitsha and urged the monarch to mobilise his subjects to the programme. Joshua Igbo however commended Igwe Achebe for the way and manner he has sustained and previewed the culture of Onitsha despite civilisation “we appreciate you in what you are doing in Onitsha kingdom in terms of development and culture. 