Aidoghie Paulinus, Abuja The Federal Government has assured Indian investors that the country has lots of untapped resources and a huge potential market in the African continent, particularly in the Information and Communication Technology (ICT) sector. Minister of Communications, Adebayo Shittu, stated this at a press briefing at the Indian High Commission in Abuja, ahead of the proposed Indo-Africa ICT Expo 2018 in Lagos. The event billed to take place at the Eko Hotel and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos, from May 22 to 23, is the fourth in the series of the Indo-Africa ICT Expo co-sponsored by the governments of India and Nigeria.
Shittu said both governments are set to forge closer cooperation in a determined effort to accelerate growth in the ICT sector, with a view to boosting the two countries’ economies through greater penetration and use of advanced technological services. He noted that India and Nigeria share a lot in common, and that with ICT currently topical globally, it is in the interest of both countries to pool resources together to deliver results for citizens. “I want to assure Indian investors that there are many untapped resources and a huge potential market in Nigeria. There are immense opportunities for small businesses and small cooperations to pitch and partner with Indian corporations to expand their businesses.  ß“Nigeria has the potential and resources for its economy to even catch-up and surpass many countries in some years to come,” Shittu said. The Minister further said Nigeria is among the fastest growing markets in Africa and by extension, the world, improving macroeconomic indicators, conducive business environment, larger, younger and more affluent population, rising middle class, which are among indicators of not only of capital but also of job creation and skills development. He added that the Ministry of Communications, along with information technology-related Ministries, Agencies and Departments (MDAs), are collaborating to ensure the event is successful.
Shittu said that over 100 ICT companies from India and many more from the ICT sector from all over Africa, will storm Lagos. Speaking earlier, the Indian High Commissioner to Nigeria, B.N. Reddy, said the event is being organised by the Telecom Equipment and Services Export Promotion Council of India, together with the High Commission of India and the Federal Ministry of Communications of Nigeria.