Godwin Tsa, Abuja The controversy over the quorum of the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) has finally been resolved with the appointment of Julie Abieyuwa Anabor as a member of the Tribunal by the National Judicial Council (NJC). Her appointment brings the number of members of the tribunal to three as required by the 1999 constitution. Before Anabor’s appointment, the quorum of members of the tribunal has always been a bone of legal contention between the Tribunal and defence counsel. Only recently, Senate President Bokula Saraki, who is standing trial before the Tribunal over alleged false declaration of assets, had cause to challenge the quorum of the Tribunal up to the Supreme Court. In its ruling, the Supreme Court held that, although the constitution provides for a three-member tribunal, two members can however sit and preside over the affairs of the Tribunal. With the appointment of Anabor, the controversy has now been put to rest. Meanwhile, the NJC has also recommended the appointment of twenty successful judges as heads of courts and judicial officers for the Federal and State High Courts. In a statement by the Council’s Director of Information, Soji Oye, he gave the names of Justice Elizabeth A. Karatu as Chief Judge of Kebbi State, and Justice Musa Danladi Abubakar as the Chief Judge of Katsina State, respectively. Also on the list of successful candidates recommended for appointment is Kadi Alhafiz Mikail Abubakar, as Grand Kadi, Katsina State. The Council recommended the appointment of Mr Justice Abbazih Musa Abubakar Saddeeq as President, Customary Court of Appeal, FCT, Abuja. Two judges – Justices Bilikisu Gambo Yusuf and Ishaku Usman – were appointed for Niger State High Court, while three others – Musa Mustapha, Baba Gani Karumi and Waziri Alhaji Abubakar – were appointed for Borno High Court. The Council has equally recommended the appointment of three judges – Husaini Alhasan Saidu, Zubayr Saliu and Ruth Alolo Alfa – for Kogi State High Court; while two others – Muhammad Haruna and Fatima Musa – were appointed for Gombe State. Ahmad Muhammad Gidado, Mustapha Lalloki, Dalha Bashir Ahmad and Atiku Muhammad Bello are appointed by the Council as Kadis, Sharia Court of Appeal, Gombe State, while Muhammad Inuwa Gombe and Hadi Aminu have been appointed as Kadis Sharia Court of Appeal, Gombe. The statement said the newly appointed candidates will be sworn-in after the approval of the President and their respective state governors, as the case may be.