• As LMC hooks OCP Africa The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) and the League Management Company (LMC) have signed separate but similarly useful partnership agreements with global online betting company, 1XBET. The company, which operates in several territories and has impressive record of association with ‘the beautiful game’ (including sponsorship of the 5th African Nations Championship held in Morocco at the beginning of the year) is the latest in the stream of top-of-the-tree businesses hooking up with Nigerian Football. President of NFF, Mr. Amaju Melvin Pinnick signed for the Federation while Shehu Dikko, Chairman of the LMC and NFF 2ndVice President, signed for the league body. The contracts are for a period of three years in the first instance, with right of first refusal on expiration, and generally offer to 1XBET, rights of association with the Super Eagles (NFF) and the Nigeria Professional Football League (LMC). 1XBET would have extensive branding and advertising opportunities across Nigeria National Team matches and events of the NFF, and are entitled to same across NPFL match venues and LMC events, including opportunity to support broadcast of NPFL matches. The company will equally benefit from coverage across NFF and LMC official websites and digital platforms. The benefits to NFF and LMC include components of cash, Value-In-Kind and share of future revenue from Nigeria territory based on agreed parameters. As part of the VIK, 1XBET will procure (by paying the annual subscription) Install (match analysis software) with full access for use by all the National Teams and all NPFL clubs, to aid the technical development and scouting of players of the National Teams and NPFL clubs. The company will also partner the NFF and LMC in various projects toward the development of Nigerian Football. Apart from the agreement with 1XBET, the LMC also recently tied up a partnership with OCP Africa, a Morocco-owned fertilizer and agricultural giant with growing business interest in Nigeria, as ‘Official Supporter.’ The company will also have branding opportunities across NPFL events and match venues.