Olakunle Olafioye Displaced traders at Araromi/Oke-Odo food market in Agbado Oke-Odo LCDA have heaved a sigh of relief as some of them were, on Monday, offered temporary resettlement plans. The relief came amid assurances that the traders would retain their shops as soon as the reconstruction of the market is completed. Executive Chairman of Agbado- Oke-Odo LCDA, Dr. Augustine Arogundade gave the assurance, on Monday, during an inspection visit to the market. Arogundade who witnessed the temporary resettlement of some of the affected traders promised the traders that no efforts would be spared in ensuring that they return to the market upon the completion of the market. “Our first approach after the demolition is to ensure we resettle the traders. We don’t want to displace the traders that is why we are doing what we are doing now. The initial place we set aside for the displaced traders have been taken over by other traders that is why we are making this new arrangement,” the council boss said. Arogundade stated further that the temporary resettlement plan was aimed at easing the suffering of the traders and to ensure that the traders refrain from street trading as many of them had relocated  to the streets in the area since the market was demolished. Managing Director of Total Value Nigeria Ltd, Mr, Chris Onyekachi, said that the first phase of the remodeling of the market would be completed in the next three to four months. He also assured that the traders would be given the right of first refusal as part of the move to ensure the traders return to their shops and promised that the shops would be given at affordable rates. In their reactions, the leaders of the traders, Haruna Mubarak who represented the Hausa traders and Alhaji Mukaila Oyinlola who represented the Yoruba traders,  expressed their appreciation to the Executive Chairman of the LCDA and the developer for the temporary resettlement plans put in place. They however appealed to the  council boss and the developer to live up to their promises by ensuring that the affected traders are not edged out of the market. 