Bamigbola Gbolagunte, Akure The Ondo State House of Assembly, on Tuesday,  impeached Hon. Ogundeji Iroju as Deputy Speaker and elected Hon. Abimbola Fajoluto to replace him. Hon. Iroju, who represents Ile-Oluji/Oke-Igbo state constituency in the Assembly was, until his defection to the All Progressives Congress (APC), a member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Iroju was one of the lawmakers who defected to the APC shortly after the emergence of Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu as the governor of the state. The former Deputy Speaker also played active roles in the impeachment of the former Speaker of the House, Mrs. Jumoke Akindele. He was the leader of the lawmakers that plotted the impeachment of Mrs. Akindele and at various times represented the group, and also addressed press conferences both in the state and outside the state. Also, Iroju led the group of lawmakers that sat in Ibadan, Oyo State where the suspension of Mrs. Akindele was announced before her impeachment at the chambers of the House of Assembly, in Akure. At Tuesday’s plenary presided over by the Speaker of the House, Hon. David Oloyelogun, 18 of the 26 lawmakers signed the impeachment of Iroju. The lawmakers alleged that the former Deputy Speaker did not cooperate with the Speaker of the House and often worked at variance with the decision of the leadership of the House. The lawmaker representing Akoko North East State Constituency, Hon. Fatai Olotu, who moved the motion for the impeachment of Iroju noted that frosty relationship between the Speaker and his Deputy was not in the interest of the House. According to Olotu, “The office of the Speaker is an exalted one that must be respected; hence any individual who does not co-operate with him is not fit to serve as his deputy.” Seconding the motion, the lawmaker representing Akure South II state constituency, Hon. Olajide Sunday said the 18 lawmakers who signed the impeachment notice are convinced that working at cross purposes by the Speaker and the Deputy would not bring the desired democratic dividends to the people. The Speaker, while making his position known called for a voice vote and members were unanimous in their call for the impeachment of Iroju. Thereafter, Hon. Abimbola Fajolu representing Ile-Oluji/Okeigbo state constituency was nominated as Deputy Speaker to replace Iroju. And he was subsequently sworn in.