The Nigerian Prisons Service has commenced recruitment for full time appointments. According to a post on their website, the recruitment exercise will run from April 30 and end on June 11. It read: The Civil Defence, Fire, Immigration and Prisons Services Board (CDFIPB) is inviting applications from suitably qualified candidates for full time appointments to fill existing vacancies in the following positions in the Nigeria Prisons Service: 1. Available POSITIONS At NPS. CATEGORY A: Superintendent Cadre: i. Superintendent of Prisons (SP) Medical, CONMESS 02.
 Applicants must be holders of M.B.B.S; M.D; M.D.S; or equivalents from recognized universities.
 ii. Superintendent of Prisons (SP) Vetinary CONMESS 02.
 Applicants must be holders of D.V.M from recognized universities.
 iii. Deputy Superintendent of Prisons (DSP) Pharmacy, CONHESS 09. Applicants must possess Bachelor’s of Pharmacy degrees from recognized universities.
 iv. Assistant Superintendent of Prisons. I (ASP.I) CONPASS 09
 Applicants must be holders of master’s degree from recognized Universities in the following areas: Humanities, Social Sciences, Lab. Sciences, Architecture, Engineering, Radiology, etc
 v. Assistant Superintendent of Prisons II (ASP.II), CONPASS 08
 Applicants must be holders of first degree from recognized Universities in the following areas: Humanities, Social Sciences, Psychology, Estate/Town Planning, Public Health, Food Sciences, Social Works, etc. CATEGORY B: Inspectorate Cadre: i. Senior Inspector of Prisons (SIP), CONPASS 08.
 Applicants must be holders of HND certificates obtained from recognized Polytechnics/Colleges in the following areas: Estate Management, Town Planning, Public Health, Food Sciences, Social Works, etc. ii. Inspector of Prisons (IP) Nursing, CONHESS 06.
 Applicants must be Registered Nurses (RN), Registered Midwives (RM) or Registered Nurses/Midwives (RNM) obtained from recognized institutions iii. Assistant Inspector of Prisons (AIP) CONPASS 06. Applicants must be holders of OND/NCE Obtained from recognized institutions. CATEGORY C: Assistant Cadre: i. Prisons Assistant I (PAI) CONPASS 05
 Applicants must be holders of GCE Ordinary Level, SSCE/NECO or their equivalents with a minimum of Five (5) credits in not more than two (2) sittings, which should include English and Mathematics or Trade Test Grade 1 (Artisans, Motor drivers, Mechanics, Auto Electricians, Plumbers, Carpenters, Masons, etc.) ii. Prisons Assistant II (PAII) CONPASS 04
 Applicants must possess the GCE Ordinary Level, SSCE/NECO or its equivalent with a minimum of five (5) credits in not more than two (2) sittings, which should include English or Trade Test Grade II. (Artisans, Motor drivers, Mechanics, Auto Electricians, Plumbers, Carpenters, Masons, etc.) iii. Prison Assistant III (PA.III) CONPASS 03.
 Applicants must be holders of GCE Ordinary Level, SSCE/NECO or its equivalents with a minimum of three (3) credits in not more than Two (2) sittings, which should include at least English or Mathematics or Trade Test Grade III. (Artisans, Motor drivers, Mechanics, Auto Electricians, Plumbers, Carpenters, Masons, etc.). Instructions For Application For Nigerian Prison Service Recruitment 2018 2. METHOD OF APPLICATION i. Applications must be Online.
 ii. Candidate are expected to log into the website www.prisons.gov.ng Fill and submit the application form online. Candidates are advised to print out the Referee forms which must be duly completed for submission during screening.
 iii. Candidates should NOTE that multiple applications will automatically be disqualified. 3. SUBMISSION OF APPLICATIONS
 Applications should be submitted online within Six (6) weeks. 4. STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS FOR THE RECRUITMENT Requirements:
 i. Applicants must be Nigerians by birth.
 ii. Applicants must possess the requisite qualification and certificates. Any certificate or qualification not presented and accepted at the recruitment centre shall not be accepted after the recruitment.
 iii. Applicants must be fit and present certificates of medical fitness from Government recognized Hospitals.
 iv. Applicants must be of good characters, and must not have been convicted of any criminal offences.
 v. Applicants must not be members of any Secret Society, Cults or Drug Addicts etc.
 vi. Applicants must not be financially embarrassed.
 vii. Applicants must be between ages of 18 and 30 years
 viii. Applicants heights must not be less than 1.65m for males and 1.60 for females.
 ix. Applicants chest measurement must not be less than 0.87 for men.
 x. Computer literacy will be of added advantage. 5. APPLICATION: Candidates should note application is absolutely free. 6. CLOSING: All applications are expected to be completed and submitted within six (6) weeks. __________________ Daily Post