Stanley Uzoaru,Owerri Imo State Governor Rochas Okorocha says that there is a gang up against him by the godfathers and elites he displaced in the 2011 governorship election, using the upcoming 2019 General Election as their rallying point. According to the governor, this opponents have decided to adopt all measures to achieve their purpose. In statement he issued through his Chief Press Secretary, Sam Onwuemeodo, Okorocha said, “For instance, those who call themselves stakeholders sneaked into an uncompleted building Friday night and came out to say they had conducted APC State Congress. Look at the photographs they have sent out. Do you conduct Congress at night and in an uncompleted building? “Again, the first question you ask about a government is the extent that government has served the people who own the mandate ab initio. They have been honest to themselves not to accuse Rochas of non-performance. On our own, we have claimed that Okorocha has more than one thousand verifiable projects to his credit and has achieved more than all those before him. And nobody has said it is not true. “If Rochas has more than one thousand projects and has achieved more than those before him put together, what is then the issue? The issue is that the elite and the godfathers have run dry since Rochas came and they want to come and recover all they have lost since 2011,” part of the statement reads. Explaining why he endorsed Uche Nwosu as successor, Governor Okorocha said he did not opt for him for the fun of it but “wants to ensure that someone who would continue to work for Imo people and continue to keep these elite and godfathers in check.” He boasted that he will still get the support of the people in 2019 and show them the path to follow. Speaking on attacks by Senator Chris Anyanwu on him in the media, Governor Okorocha said that she has no moral Justification to run him down, especially after eight years in the Senate, adding that there is a clear difference between the two of them as he noted that in less than eight years, he has surpassed the achievements of previous administrations. According to Governor Okorocha “She was in the Senate for eight solid years for Owerri zone. Let her mention one achievement her eight years in the Senate brought to Owerri zone or to the State, either as entities or as individuals. “The only thing she did for the eight years was to build a radio station for herself which is called Hot FM in Owerri, with the staff not being paid salaries for years. Also, the only major appointment she got was in the Revenue Mobilization Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC), and she gave it to her husband, Dr Casmir Anyanwu,” the Governor said.