Prof. thanks a lot for being there for many of us. I have been experiencing hardship and satanic attacks both in family and in my personal life. So when I ordered your oil and prayed as you directed me, to my surprise, three birds died in my house within the period of my prayer. One of the birds died at the window of my bedroom another died at the front of my sitting room while the last one died at my wife’s kitchen. One of my sisters that informed me that she has been experiencing frequent visitation of bees in her husband’s house, when I gave her the oil, she was so happy to notice that the bees vanished away. Now my joy and breakthrough are now fully restored. Thank you sir. Apostle Lucky 08023839483 “I never knew that someone’s relation could be so wicked to the extent of bewitching his younger brother’s children. I am a witness to so many evils that came upon my children. I suffered to train my brother’s children and my own children as well. It was so bad for me but I managed to do so with my little salary. When they all got established and my children started doing well more than my elder brother’s children, my brother of the same blood became envious of my children. Though they all attended the same school under my roof and at my expense too; I took care of them all. My brother turned to something else and started manipulating my children with charms and amulets to the extent that they all forgot about their parent and started taking care of those that did not see them through their education. My brother became happy as they bought him house in Abuja and Port Harcourt. Myself and their mother were unable to get any help from them not even food or medical assistance. This continued until he ruined my children and they all came home to the village frustrated. He became happy and moved to the house they bought for him… It is a long story. When we contacted you for assistance, and after your investigation and recommendation, we ordered your oil and prayed as you directed. My children became freed from demonic manipulation and we ordered another kind of your oil for favour and breakthrough which they did and God granted two of them visa back to USA to continue their work and the rest two became favoured with a better job. My joy is completed and my elder brother has also come back to his senses and apologized to us…We are grateful my brother…” Anonymous
I have already discussed the after-effect of bathing in the river as a means of solving one’s problem in this column. Now you may in the process of seeking for solution, a ‘prophet’ gives you a special soap to bath with, so that your man or woman could love you the more. You may receive your heart desire, but the forces of darkness within the water realm will transform the foam of the soap into a spiritual net; with this net, you will be covered, dominated and manipulated by the prince of darkness and his agents. The soap as well is used to introduce some elements of darkness into your body. This subtle element would gradually metamorphose to a moving object inside your body. In the gospel of John 14:6 Jesus said, “I am the way, the truth, and the live, no man cometh unto the father but by me”. Now, the understanding evident in the forgoing statement can only be recognized from the realm of profound spiritual consciousness transcending the limited faculty of mental speculation. Yes, mere mental speculation on the contents of Holy Scriptures cannot advance the human spirit in the true worship of the Almighty God. Let’s face the reality! If an agent of darkness instructs you to pray and chant your spiritual beads, let it be known to you that you can contact higher demons who will act certain cosmic but religious drama on you. This very game is acted upon many today in order to delude them. However, be informed that you can get your heart desire, but the same becomes a permanent source of bondage. A ‘prophet’ rooted in Satanism may use a cross to pray for you. You need to know that many talisman and amulets are used in the form of a cross even with a carved image of ‘Christ’. When you receive prayers with such things, you are indirectly receiving a mark of destruction and initiation into the realm of blind or garden witches. Through such prayers an agent of darkness can project some demonic elements into you.  (1 Tim 2:5) Do not misunderstand me here because I am speaking from experience beyond religious credo. Dear reader, I wish to bring to your knowledge that drawing a line on the ground by an evil agent while praying, using eggs to pray in one way or the other provided the instruction came from an evil agent, using salt, leaves, back of tree, sugar, milk, bread, groundnuts, beads, roads, rings, clothes, pigeons for ‘spiritual assignment’ or calling the names of angels and saints while praying are diverse ways of contacting the powers of darkness. These are also ways by which you can be kept under the constant contact of some evil forces. Those who seek for solution outside our lord and saviour Jesus Christ shall never fail to gnash their teeth in pain; this is consequent upon the fact that every solution one conceives outside Christ, the same shall be a contact point for acceleration of your predicament in the world of man. There are warnings; I mean biblical warnings inherent in receiving anything outside Christ. The bible says, “For by him were all things created, that are in heaven, and that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones, or dominions, or principalities, or powers, all things were created by him and for him” Col 1 :16. The biblical assertion authenticates the fact that Christ is the head of principalities and powers. If Christ is the head, why do you consider it necessary receiving assistance from the lower principalities while the head is the Alpha and Omega? This is where many Christians fall because they do not recognize the sole ultimate head of creation and render services to him through the authority of the holy bible. Man’s failure in this connection has greatly increased his sorrows and has made him to beg for bread in the midst of plenty. Like the prodigal son who became a beggar in another city while his father was a king. So many souls are in the same condition like that of the prodigal son and the only solution is for them to come back to their consciousness by the realization of the one and only true God. I have come to the recognition of the fact that some Christians are blind particularly when they are faced with problems, they do not concern themselves with the source of the solution, what matters to them is receiving the solution whether it is temporal or permanent. If the solution is from a wrong source, the momentary relieve they get, is where they find succor. This illusive and demonic conviction born of error and biblical misunderstanding and misinterpretation has made man [the Christian] a slave to both sin and confusion.