•Alleges governor brought huge money to Ekiti in 2014 •No one can cajole voters with money -Olumilua Wole Balogun, Ado Ekiti An aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Bayo Orire has told Governor Ayo Fayose to go and blow his whistle to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and the police if he is sure there was heavy influx of money into Ekiti as he alleged on Wednesday.Fayose had decried alleged heavy influx of money into Ekiti by top APC aspirants, wondering why some of them were desperate to buy their way into power if they had genuine intention to rule. This is even as he alleged that Fayose had also brought huge sums of money into the state to prosecute the 2014 election that produced him. “Fayose is only ranting on his allegation that aspirants in our party brought huge money to Ekiti. We have it on records that he also collected billions of naira and thousands of Dollars to prosecute his own election. So if he is talking of influx of money, we don’t know where he has got that from, maybe he might be having some hallucination from the ideas he had when he did his own. He could as well go to the EFCC or police to go and blow the whistle on who brought in money and for what purposes,” he said. Also speaking in the same vein, the state party’s Publicity Secretary, Taiwo Olatunbosun said “Fayose is frustrated and jittery, let him mind his business. He is not a member of our party so I don’t know where he is picking his information from. APC is not like the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that has stolen our commonwealth and plunged the nation into a state of coma. “Yes, we will mobilise our members for the primary but the allegation that we are sharing that kind of money is laughable. We will do everything that is right and within the constitution to send him out of the government house, so let him start parking. “No amount of blackmail will stop or derail us. The Ekiti people are set for the APC and we will make sure we produce a candidate that is acceptable to the people,” he declared. On his part, another aspirant on the party’s platform, Muyiwa Olumilua, said “Ekiti people are not stupid, you might categorise them as not being excessively wealthy, but they are still not stupid. I won’t take away the fact that money would be part of this election but money will not be the sole determinant of the delegates’ election.