Lawrence Enyoghasu Former Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Mrs Farida Waziri has urged Nigerian women to take advantage of the Micro Small and Medium Enterprise Development Fund made available by Central Bank of Nigeria, to improve their businesses. Waziri made the call at the 2018 award ceremony cum 25th anniversary of Nigerian Association of Women Entrepreneurs (NAWE), where she was honoured with the 2018 NAWE AMAZON OF THE YEAR award. The event was held at the Nicon Luxury Hotel, Abuja, last weekend. While appreciating the recognition, she told the colourful gathering, “the CBN is presently giving facilities to women entrepreneurs at single digit interest rate. Women need to package themselves and take advantage of this great opportunity to grow their businesses, improve their lives, families and communities.” She said that she was moved by the desire and sacrifice of the members of the association but not surprised because, “women have been in the vanguard of efforts to harness potentials, to increase the contribution of women to the economic development of the country. The fact that all this is being done, by women who volunteer their time and resources despite the pressures of running their own entrepreneurial enterprises, displays a spirit of selflessness, which deserves to be celebrated and emulated.”
The former EFCC boss advised on how NAWE can have more positive impact in the country and help tackle the unemployment facing Nigerian youths. “Reach for new opportunities, to create an even greater impact in the rural areas where there is a lot of poverty and social deprivation, by deploying your existing structures in creative ways, perhaps synergizing with NGOs and government agencies. The association could be nurture and support capabilities, inspire the youths who are facing the daunting challenges of unemployment, “she stated. In their remarks, the Director General, Dr Nse Udoh and National President of NAWE, Adaeze Ozongwu said Mrs Waziri was nominated for the award “in recognition and appreciation of your achievements and contributions to societal development.”