•Ruling party keeps mum Ndubuisi Orji, Abuja The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has accused the All Progressives Congress (APC) of dricing Nigeria to the brink of anarchy through its nationwide congresses. PDP hinged its accusation on the spate of violence associated with the APC congresses.
The party, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan,  said Nigerians watched with  disbelief as violence  and bloodletting have characterised the APC congresses and noted that since its  formation, the APC has continued to drag the country to the precipice by instigating conflicts among Nigerians , including its members. The PDP said although ordinarily,  party congresses should be civil interaction among party members, the party’s congreses have turned to be  a threat to  democracy. “From the rascally attempt to overrun a court of competent jurisdiction in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, to halt the wheel of justice, the burning of their own secretariat in Owerri, Imo State, the gruesome murder of their members in Lagos and Oyo states, to the malignant disputation and lust for power by its leaders across the nation, it is clear that the APC is not organic but a soulless mob without any form of conscience and integrity; an ‘evil wind that blows no good. “APC has become a symbol and harbinger of malevolence, which, by every indication, is on a sordid throttle of taking our nation to the long-forgotten state of nature where only the mighty rules; the state of anarchy. “From its cannibalistic proclivities, the world can see why the APC cares less about the lives and welfare of Nigerians, resulting in the escalation of violence, bloodletting, mass killings, extra-judicial executions, persecution of citizens, abuse of human rights, constitutional violations, including invasion of the National Assembly, as well as attack on federal lawmakers and judicial officers. “We now know the roots of APC’s harsh economic policies and massive corruption that led to the biting economic recession and its attendant hunger, starvation and lack ravaging our nation today.” Mum was the word from the ruling party when Daily Sun sought its reaction, yesterday night.
No APC official responded to telephone calls and messages from Daily Sun.