Doris Obinna The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration Control (NAFDAC) has re-opened Emzor Pharmaceutical liquid factory after its closure due to Emzolyn syrup, which contains codeine featured in a BBC documentary. According to a statement, the Chief Executive Officer of Emzor, Mrs. Stella Chinyelu Okoli, the reopening of Emzor was necessitated after NAFDAC officials, following the inspection of the investigation and enforcement directorate, gave a clean bill of health.
“After proper inspection has been conducted in Emzor factory, NAFDAC officials were satisfied that the manufacturing processes conform to all laid down procedures, and that Emzor pharmaceutical liquid factory has been consistently compliant with her valid Manufacturing Practice Certifications,” Okoli said. She regrets, however, the rate at which drugs are being abused regardless of its side effect on habitual users, to the extent that a genuine therapeutic product made for the relief of a specific illness is equally abused. According to her, the Federal Government, Federal Ministry of Health and relevant agencies, including NAFDAC, have been commended for their prompt response on the abuse of codeine syrup, which is of great concern to all Nigerians. “All Nigerians calls for action towards controlling this situation. For more than 30 years Nigerians have trusted Emzor brand, which stands for quality and reliability as a result of hard work and commitment to the highest standards and best practices in pharmaceutical manufacturing company. Emzor is committed on providing unlimited wellness products which will be available to all Nigerians, which are duly approved by NAFDAC,” she said. Okoli said: “Emzor established Chike Okoli Foundation in 2016 which is still on to develop youths, promote healthy lifestyles and entrepreneurship, adding that millions of youth’s lives have been influenced and touched. She said: “Emzor will seek to make relevant and impactful contributions to the multi­agency discussions on the way forward that are sure to follow in the days and months ahead. From the limited depiction of rehabilitation efforts represented in the BBC programme, there is room for much support and improvement in the treatment and rehabilitation of persons affected by addiction. “The company will continue to contribute to the vital aspect of managing the problem and securing the National treasure that is the youth. Emzor is pleased that the Federal Government plans to solicit the involvement of organizations with positive impact on youth culture such as the Nigerian Football Federation.”