Ben Dunno, Warri Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State has lamented the declined in the social and economy life of the Warri, the commercial nerve centre of the state, attributing it largely to insecurity on the parts of all the stakeholders within the metropolis and its environs. Speaking at the First Warri Economic Summit, organised by the Warri South Local Government Area, at the weekend, Governor Okowa called on all stakeholders, especially community leaders and youths as well as various security outfits, operating in the area, to evolve a deliberate security action plan that would sustain peace in the area. He emphasised the need for an attitudinal change among the youths who are in the habit of driving away investors in their communities by making unreasonable demands of development levies otherwise known as ‘Deve’ on genuine investors who sincerely want to invest in their area. The governor, who recounted the good memories of Warri in term of its booming economy and flourishing social life, however, stated that, “In the recent past Warri declined greatly as a business and social centre both within the State and the country”. According to him, “It is necessary to note that the decline of economic and social activities in Warri has negatively impacted on all the communities around”. “I must point out that the major reason for the decline of economic activities in Warri has to do with insecurity. The challenges of incessant disagreement between one ethnic group and others have became quite disturbing”. “This summit is therefore, a veritable occasion through which we could create awareness of the potential dangers inherent in the disruption of the peace and progress of our communities and the importance of peaceful coexistence, political, economic and social stability”. “For us to achieve economic boom and prosperity, we must at all times encourage peace and security. It is my strong conviction that we learnt our lessons, we know our potentials and so should rise to the occasion, to  benefit from our unique position as the hub for oil and gas, including maritime”. “In moving forward the youths cannot be left out. We must chart the positive way forward for our youths since they are the leaders of tomorrow and the ready tools for the creation of insecurity. “The process of the revival of Warri should start with the youths. However, for the youths to actively participate in the process there is need for a change in mindset and attitude among the youths”. “For positive transformation to evolve and take root, the youths must cultivate such attitude as hard work, honesty, discipline and patriotism, which are necessary for societal progress”. “I want to appeal to our youths and the various communities across the State, to continue to promote peace and unity at all times.  Conscious that the sustainable development that we seek is not possible in the midst of crisis, we set our eyes on measures to ensure that enduring peace reigns in the State”. “We can only continue to make achievements in all areas if we have peace and security”, Governor Okowa stated. 