Olanrewaju Lawal, Birnin-Kebbi Presidential aspirant of the National Rescue Movement (NRM)and United Kingdom (UK)-based Nigerian, Alhaji Usman Ibrahim, has thrown his weight behind agitations in some quarters that President Muhammadu Buhari and old politicians of his rank , should not contest in the forthcoming 2019 general election. Ibrahim, a United Kingdom (UK)-based technocrat, stated this  while speaking with journalists after the party’s inauguration of the  executive of Kebbi state chapter of the party, on Monday. The party Presidential aspirant said, ” It is high time our elders quit  politics for youths. They have trained us on how to be fishing. So, they have to allow us to start fishing in their life span so that they could correct us any where we made mistakes.” While clarifies more on his position,Ibrahim insisted that he supported Nigerians who are clamouring that President Muhammadu Buhari should not re-contest for President in 2019 general election. He said, “President Buhari had tried for Nigerians. He has done well but it is time people like him should give way for youths, energetic Nigerians to start steering the affairs of our country. Let them go and rest and be watching us,correcting us wherever we might have committed mistakes “. The United Kingdom- base Nigerian, Presidential Aspirant also says he picked interest in the newly registered NRM party while surfing the internet from his base in United Kingdom, England. Earlier, the National Chairman of the party, Senator Saidu Dansadau, who was represented by an ex- official of the party, Alhaji Abubakar Aliyu, said the party was born out of the observation of the problem the country faced. “One of the problem is that of the governance. We have professionals and credible people, selfless and patriotic people who are willing and ready to serve this country. But, leaders don’t want to see the faces of such people. The prefer sycophants and hypocrites who will be singing the songs of sycophancy and this is a serious problem,” he said. He said,” All Nigerians are entitled to be members of this party as they so wish. But, to get a ticket to contest electioneering at all levels of governance, a person must prove himself to be credible God fearing, selfless and is accepted by his people,” he said.