Laide Raheem, Abeokuta A political group, the Movement for Yewa-Awori for Governor (MOYAG), has called on the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and other registered political parties in Ogun State, to field their governorship candidates from Ogun West zone for the 2019 general elections. Addressing a press conference, on Wednesday, in Abeokuta, the Convener of the group, Sola Oyekanmi, lamented the alleged marginalization of Yewa-Awori people in the politics of the state, noting it was high time the situation was addressed. Flanked by other officials of the group, Oladeinde Tebun-Fagbemi and Yusuf Akinlotan,  Oyekanmi, described the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) as the strongest political force in the state to achieve the Yewa-Awori aspiration. He explained that the easiest way for Ogun West to produce governor for the first time in 42 years is for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and other parties to zone their gubernatorial tickets to the senatorial district. He observed that the prevailing political imbalance has seen other senatorial districts benefit more from infrastructural development ahead of Ogun West. Oyekanmi, however, expressed the readiness of the group to support the campaign of any gubernatorial aspirant anointed by the incumbent governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, with the sum of N25m. According to him, the governor has demonstrated his resolve in words and in actions towards the actualisation of justice and fair play in pursuit of political balance in the state. “We, as a movement, are willing to support anyone and all credible efforts to ensure that the next governor emerges from our senatorial district. “We hereby state clearly that when Governor Amosun delivers on his promise, the entire people of Ogun West Senatorial District will be very grateful and he will be recorded in history as the most significant pillar of support for the Yewa-Awori people towards our pursuit for development and political advancement.” “We want to call on all political parties to encourage and field candidates of Ogun West extraction. We have waited for 42 years. It is time for us to have a governor from our senatorial district. “We call on all political parties, regardless of their political interest or philosophy, to present Yewa-Awori candidates for the elections. Amosun has vowed to support Ogun West for governor. Whoever he decides to back at the end of the day is his prerogative. And we believe he is a man of his words. Since he has reiterated his support for Ogun West agenda, there is nothing to fear”. MOYAG Convener stated.