 .stanley Uzoaru,Owerri Imo State Governor Rochas Okorocha has vowed that he will not allow Senator Ifeanyi Araraume and others in the new formed Coalition of the All Progressive Congress(APC) in the state destroy APC just like he claimed they did with other parties. He equally stated that he will not allow the coalition, including, former governors of the State, chief Ikedi Ohakim and Achike Udenwa distract him against the scheduled elections in the state. The Governor who stated this in a press statement he issued through his Chief Press Secretary, Sam Onwuemeodo noted that in 1998, Araraume was the pioneer State Chairman of All Peoples Party (APP), in the state and before the 1999 election, he abandoned the APP after Chief Arthur Nzeibe had demanded for accounts of the finances of the party. He claimed that the confusion that followed, created a big crack in the party and caused the end of the party in the state. He continued “Chief Evan Enwerem took him to PDP and ensured that he was given the ticket for Okigwe Zone Senatorial Seat and assisted him to win. That was in 1999 and then 2003. And since 2003 he has never won any other election and will never win. In 2007, he fought Chief Achike Udenwa in the PDP so much that, few days to the 2007 election the party could not have a governorship candidate. The Supreme Court later declared him (Araraume) candidate of the PDP, making Udenwa to file behind Ikedi Ohakim of the PPA and he won” Okorocha said. Explaining further he said that “Chief Araraume pursued Ohakim from the tribunal to the Supreme Court and he made sure Ohakim never drank water and drop the cup. At the end, he created so much bad blood in the PDP that the party became a shadow of itself. In 2011, he moved to ACN and became the governorship candidate of the party. Chief Ohakim, the incumbent then, was the candidate of the PDP, while Rochas Okorocha was the candidate of APGA. At the end of the 2011 election, Owelle Okorocha won, while Araraume could not win even his Isiala Mbano Local Government. In 2015, he moved back to PDP. At the primary of the party, Chief Emeka Ihedioha won by defeating him. He went to court against Ihedioha and was in court till the elections were conducted and won. It was during the supplementary election that he began to come closer to APC, to achieve his aim of destroying PDP finally. Few weeks after his entry into APC, he declared for governorship because that is the only weapon he uses to destroy parties. He never talked about how to assist the party but only his ambition. To achieve his aim of destroying APC, he recruited few other ambitious elements in the party and they call themselves coalition” Governor Okorocha claimed. Governor Okorocha also alleges that Araraume was among those that called him, Okoro-Hausa, Alhaji in Government House. And even went as far as telling people that he would work with Muhammadu Buhari to Islamize the south east zone. “He was among those who accused Rochas of giving money to some Igbo Youths to be converted to Islam” He added that as at the time he joined the merger that gave birth to APC, nobody believed it was going to work out. Hope Uzodinma , he claimed “was among the PDP bigmen who invaded Imo with soldiers during the 2015 election” The governor noted that “Today they have all claimed to join APC. And laboring in vain to disturb Governor Okorocha for whatever reason. In case they do not know, APC members in the state will never, never allow them to reap where they never sowed. And they will never be allowed to destroy APC. They lack the capacity to do all these. And by the grace of God, by 2019 Uche Nwosu will be voted into power by Imo people as their governor, in whom they are well pleased. Governor Okorocha assured. Meanwhile, the Director of Contact and Mobilisation for Araraume’s Campaign Council, chief Vitalis Ajumbe has claimed that Araraume rather has more structure in the party than Governor Okorocha. Ajumbe also claimed that in 2015, Governor Okorocha’s victory was as a result of Arararume collapsing his structure in the party.