TheCable The Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) has asked its members intending to get married to carry out what it refers to as a “genital test”. In a memo dated May 10 and seen by TheCable, the church said it gave the directive after it noticed recurring cases of  resulting from “falsehood, especially in the case of undeclared or unconfessed reproductive/genital status”. WHAT IS GENITAL TEST? For women, the genital exam involves a pelvic exam. The pelvic exam allows a doctor or health care provider to check the internal and external reproductive organs for signs of disease. In females, the reproductive organs include the vulva (the outside of the vagina), the vagina, the cervix, the uterus, the fallopian tubes, and the ovaries. During the male genital exam, a doctor performs a visual and manual examination of the male genitals which includes the testicles, epididymis, spermatic cord, and vas deferens (the latter three being tubes connecting the various parts of the male reproductive system). If indicated, the doctor will also examine the rectum/anal area, and the prostate gland. F. Odeola, a pastor of the church, said Enoch Adeboye, general overseer of RCCG, has ordered the entire mission’s output to henceforth include the genital test as part of the pre-marital examination for its members seeking to get married. It also asked the church’s provinces to register with trusted government hospitals for the medical examinations. “The Mission Authority has observed the recurrence of cases of marital crises resulting from falsehood, especially in the case of undeclared or unconfessed reproductive/genital status,” the memo read. “We have the directive of the General Overseer to instruct the entire Mission’s outpost that forthwith, pre-marital medical examination for intending couples should also include genital test. “Further, Provinces are requested to register with particular (trusted) government approved hospital for the various pre-marital examinations for intending couples. “Remain blessed in this season of songs and victory in Jesus’ name, amen.” A RCCG pastor confirmed to TheCable that he received the memo.