Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari, on Tuesday night, broke the Ramadan fast with members of the Federal Executive Council (FEC), service chiefs and heads of security at the presidential villa, Abuja. According to the President, the decision to break the Ramadan fast with the ministers and service chiefs was to share experience with them. He noted that the month of Ramadan provides opportunity not only for the performance of religious obligations but also help in ensuring healthy living. “I think it is not a matter of making speeches here. I just said I should start with the Executive Council and the service chiefs so that we would share (while we are eating) our experiences. “For those who have too much weight I think (fasting) is very healthy for them,” he said. President Buhari charged the cabinet members as well as security agencies to be on their toes as they discharge their responsibilities so as to ensure that the change agenda is implemented effectively for sustainable future of Nigeria. The Director-General of the National Intelligence Agency, Ahmed Rufai, who spoke on behalf of the guests, said the event was an opportunity to renew their absolute loyalty to the president and the country. He reassured that they would continue to serve the country with renewed vigour and fear of God. Those in attendance were ministers, Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari, Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Gabriel Olonisakin; Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai; Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok Ekwe Ibas and Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshall Sadique Abubakar. Others were the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Idris Abubakar, the National Security Adviser, Maj. Gen. Babagana Mongunu (rtd), Presidential aides and heads of para-military agencies. The President will, on Wednesday evening, be hosting the leadership of the National Assembly, religious and political groups where he would interact and share experiences on ways of achieving peace, unity and socio-economic development of the country. 