Wole Balogun, Ado Ekiti A Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) and founder of the Afe Babalola University, Ado Ekiti (ABUAD), Aare Afe Babalola, has described Governor Ayodele Fayose as a patriot. The legal luminary also described Fayose as a magician, miracle maker, architect, planner, visionary and executioner who has changed the face of the judiciary in Ekiti State.
Babalola poured the encomiums on Fayose for completing the new ultra modern Ekiti State High Court Complex and naming it after the first Chief Judge of the state and now a monarch, Justice Oba Ademola Ajakaiye (retd), the Oluyin of Iyin Ekiti. A statement by Fayose’s Chief Press Secretary (CPS), Idowu Adelusi, quoted Babalola as saying that Fayose has amazed the doubting Thomases that didn’t believe he could complete the N1.9 billion High Court Complex within record time. His words: “I was a front liner in the struggle; our hopes, most of them have not been achieved. This is a special day because some 55 years ago, I practised law in this place. It is for Fayose that the face of practising law would be changed for the better in Ekiti. Fayose is a magician, miracle maker, visionary, architect, planner, an executioner, a patriot from Ekiti, from Yoruba land to the whole of Nigeria.” “When on October 12, 2016, he promised to change the face of the judiciary to modern structures, and vowed to complete it in 18 months, there were doubting Thomases but now he has done it. He is a wonderful man.” “Our hope was that we would make Ekiti the best place in Nigeria. Those who are blessed and are Ekiti and whom we relied on at that time have not lived up to our expectations except of course for me who have been able to put up a tertiary institution that has become the best in the country. We therefore urge our blessed Ekiti sons and daughters to come home and develop the state.” Also lauding the governor for naming the complex after him, Oba Ajakaiye, said: “The plan to have a High Court Complex started in 1998. That dream has now been realised by the vision of our dynamic leader, Fayose. It is also noteworthy that this is the first time a High Court Complex would be named after an individual. It is more gratifying that it was done when I am alive to savour the honour. I am therefore immensely grateful to the government of Ekiti State ably led by Governor Ayo Fayose. Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN) also praised Fayose’s efforts in delivering sound and purposeful leadership to his people. “Fayose’s efforts has shown that he has ideas that rules the world not necessarily by wealth. Ekiti State is one of the poorest in Nigeria, but today it is one of the richest in terms of infrastructure. One of the greatest things I want us to remember Fayose for is the fact that he has never named any of the projects after himself. This is a great feat and an indication of selflessness. We have a system where public administrators had named public utility after themselves. “Ekiti State is lucky to have a very strong willed and determined young man who is convinced and carries out things according to the convictions of his conscience and according to the directives of God at this critical time,” Ozekhome said. The Chief Judge of the state, Justice Ayo Daramola, who was visibly overwhelmed with joy for the development, also poured encomiums on Fayose, saying: “The quest for a befitting High Court building dates back to 1996. The past administrations, both civil and military, have taken care of the executive and legislature; the judiciary had been neglected in spite of efforts made by many stakeholders. “This has made the judiciary to make use of poor shelters for their profession. Today, the commissioning of a high brow shows that where there is a will there is always a way,” he said.