President Donald Trump of the United States wrote his name in gold on Monday last week when he walked the talk by relocating his country’s Embassy to Jerusalem, thus stamping official seal on the undisputable capital of the Jewish nation. This move has marked Trump out for special honour by history and posterity. Until now, past US presidents had prevaricated and eventually failed to fulfill their promises to do the right thing, which the movement of the Embassy is. They had mostly been intimidated by a compromised (dis)United Nations that is filled with Muslims and Arab loyalists, who failed to realise that they were fighting against the settled Word of God, which MUST surely come to pass at the appointed time. That time is now and God used no other person than a bohemian president to accomplish that, just as He uses the foolish things to confound the wise. God does not look for the qualified because God Himself is the qualifier. God only looks for availability and because He knew Trump more than even Trump knows himself, God put him on the throne in amazing circumstances.
It is now clear why Trump dusted highly experienced opponents to emerge president of the United States despite losing on all fronts, including his party’s support. God thrust him up to fulfill a purpose and because he did not hesitate to be used, God’s grace will continue to be upon his presidency. This article is not about Trump though but about God’s covenant and unfailing word… Thus saith the Lord of hosts; Behold, I will save my people from the east country, and from the west country; And I will bring them, and they shall dwell in the midst of Jerusalem: and they shall be my people, and I will be their God, in truth and in righteousness. Zechariah 8:7-8 Since Israel was saved from the ‘east and west countries’ and restored to nationhood in 1948, the Arab nations have made it a target of recurrent attack in a bid to wipe it out. Israel though outnumbered in every way, had won all the wars and even expanded even but Jerusalem remained under foreign occupation though. It was not until the blitzkrieg of the unforgettable Six-Day War in June 1967, between Israel and a coalition of Arab states that Israel not only conquered the Sinai Peninsula, Gaza Strip, West Bank and Golan Heights, but also recaptured the city of David, Jerusalem! Praise God. What other proof does one need to authenticate this divine project?
Of course, the devil has always tried to disprove God and is doing everything to abort God’s plans for Jerusalem. In all, Jerusalem had been attacked 52 times, captured and recaptured 44 times, besieged 23 times, and completely destroyed twice. However, God’s plans for the city remained unshaken and now permanently fulfilled despite the futile rage of a diseased world. Israeli Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, was so elated on the occasion of the US Embassy opening in Jerusalem he took the world down memory lane. He Said: “In Jerusalem, Abraham passed the greatest test of faith and the right to be the father of our nation. In Jerusalem, King David established our capital three thousand years ago. The prophet, Zechariah, declared over 2,500 years ago, ‘So said the Lord, ‘I will return to Zion and I will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem. And Jerusalem shall be called the City of Truth.’’ As the Lord promised in Zechariah, He has returned to the City of Truth and all men of goodwill are welcome.
I underscored Netanyahu’s statement that Jerusalem became capital of Israel 3000 years ago but interlopers crashed into the covenant city and are receiving the backing of a godless world to turn truth on its head.
Writing on “Jerusalem and Muslim Claims”, renowned Pakistani historian, Mobarak Haidar, wrote on his Facebook wall: “The Holy Koran spoke of Al-Aqsa Mosque when it was not a ‘mosque’ in the Islamic sense. It was a holy place because of the prophets of Israel, from Moses to Jesus. It was the holy spot of worship for Jews and Christians. Obviously, there were no Muslims in the city of Jerusalem till the era of Emir-ul-Momineen Umar ibn Khattab… The Prophet (Muhammad) and his followers prayed with their faces toward this Jewish-Christian holy temple because Kaaba (the present centre of Islamic Hajj) was full of idols. “After the ‘Conquest of Mecca,’ Muslims were told to turn their faces toward Kaaba and away from Jerusalem. They have never faced their loyalty toward Jerusalem after that, for the last 1,400 years. No Muslim ever went to pray in Jerusalem till it was conquered by the second caliph (Umar ibn Khattab), although there was no restriction on Muslims. They do not go there today because it was no longer their centre. “Christians were masters of Jerusalem before Muslims conquered it. It is still a holy place for Christians. But Christians have no dispute over ownership of the city. It is their religious right to visit the holy city; and the Jews do not stop them. Muslims, too, should have the same religious rights, and in fact they have those rights; Jews do not stop them. Muslims of the world, therefore, have no religious basis to rule Jerusalem. Most of the Muslims have never even wished to visit Jerusalem… Active centres of Muslim faith are none other than the Holy Cities of Mecca and Medina. Iranians have never controlled these active centres. But they are passionately building deadly weapons and jihadi forces to conquer or destroy Israel. It is sectarian politics of hegemony which can generate nothing but division and pain.” That was a man of truth.  How I wish other bigots would see reason, especially Nigerian antagonists of the truth.
The world is so sick it lacks the sense to ponder over Trump’s unusual emergence as occupant of the White House at this time is out of the ordinary. The man, Trump, may well be an instrument in the fulfillment of endtime prophecies in the book of Daniel. Zechariah 12 reveals that at the time of the end, Jerusalem shall become the centre of world attention ‘with all the nations of the world joining forces to attack her.’ That process has effectively, officially begun. All eyes are on Israel today and nations like Iran are intent on wiping her out. What a delusion! The immutable Word of God states: But I HAVE CHOSEN JERUSALEM, that My Name might be there; and have chosen David to be over My people Israel. 2 Chronicles 6:6 However, that Israel is now in control of Jerusalem once again, signposts that the time of salvation has drawn near. Luke 21.24-28. Oh, how I wish my nation Nigeria and compatriots would berth in the city of truth and escape the wrath about to be poured out on haters of Israel!