…N’Delta varsity to reopen soon The Bayelsa State government, on Friday, took positive steps to resolve the crisis that engulfed Amassoma community in Southern Ijaw Local Government Area of the state. The state Governor, Seriake Dickson, who held meetings with various stakeholders, including the leadership of the community and the Governing Council of the Niger Delta University (NDU) at the DSP Alamieyeseigha Banquet Hall in Yenagoa, expressed regrets over the sad incident and assured that the government would pick the bills of the injured and the burial expenses of the victims. He said a formal delegation would also be sent to commiserate with the bereaved families while those detained by the police would be released, stressing that efforts were on to ensure the reopening of NDU to resume academic activities as soon as possible. He called on the people of the state to be wary of those he described as failed political leaders and desperate aspirants bent on fomenting crisis to destabilise the state. The meeting, which observed a minute silence in honour of those who lost their lives in the crisis, was attended by the Deputy Governor, Rear Admiral Gboribiogha John Jonah (retd); Speaker of the House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Konbowei Benson; Head of Service, Rev. Thomas Zidafamor; and chairman of the state Traditional Rulers Council, King Alfred Diete Spiff. Others were the Ebenanaowei of Ogboin Kingdom, King Oweipa Jones Ere and Amananaowei of Amassoma community, Major Graham Naingba (retd), among other stakeholders. A statement by the Special Adviser on Public Affairs, Mr. Daniel Alabrah, said Dickson, who was accompanied to the meeting by former Delta State Governor, Chief James Ibori, described the incident as unfortunate, sad and avoidable, and urged the people not to take laws into their hands. He said the government would set up two separate committees to examine the immediate and remote causes of the disturbances as well as promote genuine reconciliation, peace and unity in Amassoma. Dickson urged Bayelsans to always guard against misinformation and propaganda peddled by politicians who were envious of his administration’s track record of achievements in the last six years. He maintained that Amassoma occupies a special place in his heart, which informed his administration’s decision not only to invest in the development of NDU but also siting of its single biggest investment, the N80 billion Bayelsa International Airport project in the community. In his remarks, Chief James Ibori expressed support to the reform agenda of the state governor and urged the people, especially Amassoma community, to rally round government to attract more development. In his presentation, the representative of the youth leadership of Amassoma, Mr. Simeon Ayogoi, condemned the action of the youths who attacked the police operatives drafted to maintain law and order in the community. He also took a swipe at the police for firing live bullets, describing the conduct as most unprofessional.