Gyang Bere, Jos Prominent stakeholders in the Fan district of Barkin-Ladi local government area of Plateau State are alarmed over the bloody attack on Rambuu village, from which villagers have fled for fear of further attacks. Community spokesman Daniel Kim, who addressed a press conference in Jos on Wednesday, raised the alarm about his people being subjected to a series of attacks orchestrated by herdsmen, with three persons killed last Saturday. “We have been under siege for several days and government has not done anything about it. Fan was under attack throughout on Tuesday and today Wednesday by Fulani herdsmen; the attack started over the weekend and continued unabated,” the spokesman said. Read also: Fulani herdsmen killed four persons in Plateau Read also: Fresh herdsmen attack kill four men in Plateau village “No security agencies have shown any concern to our plight. It is the responsibility of government to protect lives and property of all Nigerian citizens and provide good governance; but for us in Fan district, nobody seems to care about what is happening with us.” He alleged that the attackers were organised to the point of using rocket launchers, which were launched from Mangu into Rambuu village, adding that “we are helpless, defenseless and, therefore, call on the relevant authorities to live up to their responsibility and save lives.” Kim said that, in addition to the three persons killed and several injured Saturday, seven have been murdered in the last three weeks in Nding by Fulani herdsmen. Commissioner for Information and Communication Yakubu Dati said government was working round the clock to protect lives and property in the state. He said Governor Simon Lalong was holding a Security Council Meeting to ensure that all communities, including Fan District, continue to enjoy the relative peace in the state. “We have worked so hard to secure the current peace in the state and government will not give room to anything that will breach the existing peace in the state. The Governor will not sleep until all lives and property in the state are secure.”