“What happened to me is beyond words. I do not know how to start but all I can say is that God has answered my prayer through you. I have been sick for a long time not knowing where my problem started. It was a friend that I was indebted to and had no money to pay that took my name to a shrine. The spirit started manifesting to my wife and killed my last daughter. The evil spirits made my life meaningless, I lost all that I labored for and finally went to the village and settled with my wife and my only son. In 20017, I lost my wife after she was slapped by the same evil spirit physically in our bed room while she was sweeping the room. Things became very worse when I lost my wife. I used my village people to mediate between me and my friend, yet he was not willing to listen. One of my friends contacted you on my behalf and assisted me to order four bottles of your oil and also helped to pray with me. God truly answered our prayer, the spirit that has been disturbing my house fled. The same friend of mine responsible for all my woes started having the same problem that I had for years now. The evil spirit he sent to me started disturbing him too. He has gone to settle the evil spirit as I vowed never to go to any shrine for any reason as a child of God. After the prayer, my business was restored and I have been able to settle all the people I owned. The miracle of your oil is too real my brother…God used you to restore my hope and aspirations. God bless you so much sir…” Mr. Joseph M. Email joseph14@meleke.com “Sir, my mother snatched my husband away from me with her demonic powers. I loved my husband but I never knew that he was my mother’s old boy friend. It happened that my mother came for a usual visit after I had my first son, I noticed certain things around them and confronted both of them; they deceived and confused me. Well, I continued until one day I caught my mother and my husband red-handed having sex on my matrimonial bed. I shouted and my husband and my mother gave me the beating of my life. The following day, both of them eloped and went to the city of Warri and settled. I started nursing my baby and for about 6 months I did not call them. After months my mother started appearing in my room mysteriously to kill me. When I shouted, people in the compound will come out and she will disappear…this continued until last year October that I contacted you and got just a bottle of oil from you. I must confess that my mother did not just confess after the prayer rather my husband’s eyes became opened and freed from my mother’s hypnotism. My husband came home crying and confessing and asking me to take him back. Sir, I have reconciled with my husband and he is today living happily with me…My mother has been taken care of too by God in his divine way. I thank you so much and I must conclude that she was truly the one that killed my father as it was rumored then. God bless you. (Names and contact withheld). Is amazing how people read the bible and cannot separate black from white. You see a “man of God” using all sorts of charms, talisman, and juju at the same time shouting hallelujah; you will be convinced that he is a man of God. You visit him for the solution to your problem and he initiates you finally. This has been happening from time to time as Amadioha and Agwuisi prayer and deliverance ministries are in increase. God shall help us. A particular woman shared her experience with me some weeks ago. She said that she visited a man who claimed to be working for God, for the solution to her problem, the man after having sex with the woman, anointed her sex organ with demonic oil. The woman who visited the man for two things to be taken care of by the lord through the self acclaimed man of God confessed to me that she was hypnotized to have illicit sex with him. Adding that, the “man of God” knew that she has acquired material things, decided to consolidate his manipulation upon her life. In her words, “Prof. I thought he is a true man of God until he started manifesting some demonic qualities. After having sex with me, I noticed a strange thing that happened to me. I started bleeding seriously, it continued until six days when it ceased. He was still making love to me while I was bleeding within six days. In fact, I never knew what came upon me until the six days were over. I went to see him here in Lagos for the blessings of the womb. My fifteen years of marriage has been fruitless though my husband is not worried. I have a nice man with me. I have also confessed to him about my affairs with the “man of God”… Do you know that since I made love to him, up till this moment I’m talking to you, I have always seen myself making love to a snake the moment I close my eyes to sleep? Again, I am noticing an object inside my private part, bad dreams, yet the man said that he is not through with me…” After listening to her, I was moved to first of all pray for her by counseling her on phone at the same time; I recommended a different kind of my oil which took me eighteen months to dedicate. She ordered it without further delay. She did not know of this column in the Newspaper, if she had the knowledge of same, she would not have allowed herself to be deceived. The lord visited her during the prayers she did with the oil. Four days in between the periods of using the oil, she confessed to me through text message that the object moving inside her body passed out during excretion and she was very happy and wondered how such demonic object like a little lizard entered inside her. At this point, I want to implore my reader to get a copy of my book titled, Satanic Points of Contacts vol.1. The book explains how such object can enter into any person. At the moment, the woman is still on the prayer which will last for three weeks. God will send an answer to her problem and by the grace of God her fifteen years of barrenness must come to an end and her testimony must be published in this column. One thing every reader of my books, or articles should bear in mind is that God answers prayer in different ways; he is the author of life and the finisher of same. Let it be emphasized here however, that no matter how you have gone astray seeking for help where there is no help, an opportunity is offered to you here to truly acknowledge the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords, the Sole Spiritual Head of the whole universe our lord and savior Jesus Christ who is presently ready to welcome you into his kingdom by lifting you out of your pitiable condition and ushering you into his royal chambers of hope, transformation, glorious love, divine favour and salvation. I shall continue to emphases that the physical earth is a realm of psychic attack inherent in the esoteric manipulation of witchcraft operation.