Doris Obinna In a bid to uplift traditional medicine in Africa, Pax Herbals has promised to work with the government and non-governmental organisations (NGOs), in the area of research and university programmes, towards the development of African herbal medicine. According to Director, Pax Herbal Clinic and Research Laboratories, Fr. Anselem Adodo, his company recently signed a memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Federal Institute of Industrial Research, Oshodi (FIIRO) to research into the use of Nigerian plants as foods and medicine, with a view of commercialising the products. Adodo noted that the gains of the MOU between Pax Herbal and its subsidiary, the Pax Integral Research and Development Initiative (OFIRDI), with Lagos State Coconout Development Agency (LASCODA), on research into coconut-based products would soon be seen. He said the University of Medical Sciences (UNIMED), Ondo, the only university of its kind in Nigeria, is in the process of introducing a Bachelor’s degree programme in Herbal Medicine. “This is historic, and a significant step towards boosting herbal medicine research and development in Nigeria,” he said, adding: “Also, Samuel Adegboyega University, Ogwa, a private university in Edo State, is in the process of introducing a higher certificate programme in Herbal Medicine into its curricula through the inspiration of its Vice Chancellor, Prof Bernard Aigbokan, based on a curriculum I developed.” Adodo, who is also author of a research book entitled: “Medicinal Plants of Nigeria: An Ethnobotanical Survey and Plant Album,” due to be released next month, said: “University of Ibadan has already approved and commenced a Master’s degree and a PhD in African Traditional Medicine at its Institute of African Studies, while a course in Herbal Medicine, through the Pharmacy Department, has already been introduced into the medical curriculum at the same university.” He added that an expert committee, with members drawn from all the key government research and regulatory agencies, set up by the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) to draw up official identification of African medicinal plants has also made such huge progress in its research findings by this time. Meanwhile, the Institute of African Studies, University of Ibadan, in partnership with Pax herbals, according to him, will soon begin to offer a professional certificate programme in Herbal Medicine. He said: “This programme aims to empower existing practicing traditional healers to professionalise their practice. It is also open to pharmacists and medical practitioners who need a working knowledge of Herbal Medicine, with the attendant certification from a credible institution. “The Nigeria Institute of Medical Research (NIMR), which last year signed an MOU with Pax Herbals on research and development of Traditional Herbal Medicine, recently established a Centre for Herbal Medicine, Alternative and Complementary Medicine Research.
“The Nigeria Natural Laboratories (Pax Herbals) have already prepared a detailed protocol for a clinical trial of the Pax Herbal malarial medicine called Malatreat, which is awaiting ethical clearance from health regulatory authorities.” Speaking further, he disclosed that these were exciting developments in the area of herbal medicine research in Nigeria. Said he: “And in all these instances, I have always been actively involved, either as a member of a curriculum advisory committee, curriculum review committee or a research committee. “My participation brought awareness to several areas of neglect, especially the dearth of literature on herbal medicine from Nigeria and documentation of Nigerian plants and flora for students and researchers. “This has compelled Nigerians researchers to depend excessively on foreign publications to help them in their local research, which is practically difficult and not easy to compare.”
According to Adodo, one of the major weaknesses of traditional medicine, however, is that it has not yet moved from the realm of the subjective to the objective as well as implicit to explicit knowledge. “It is crucial thus, that traditional medicine evolves from implicit to explicit knowledge, from knowledge embodied in individual local healers to a community of knowledge that is available to all. In Africa, it is often difficult to separate the practice of herbal medicine as a discipline, from the personality of the herbal practitioner. “In conventional medicine, it is difficult; if a patient dies after a series of treatment and medication, people rarely blame or condemn the practice of medicine as a discipline, or declare it completely ineffective. Instead, it just means that a particular case was simply impossible, or nor successful. If a Medical doctor makes mistakes or acts contrary to the principle of ‘do no harm,’ or is noticed to have been negligent, he or she is penalised by the relevant authorities,” he said.