Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari met with a delegation from the Nigerian Senate over the lingering face off between the Senate President Bukola Saraki and Inspector General of the Police Ibrahim Idris. The meeting held inside the President’s office at Aso Rock Villa, Abuja. The Senate had last week Wednesday set up a nine-member committee, chaired by Saraki, to meet with President Buhari on an allegation that the IGP is trying to implicate Senate President. Read also: Saraki accuses IGP of frame-up plot Read also: Saraki cries out, says ‘IGP wants to implicate me’ The Senate President had during plenary told his colleagues that the IGP had transferred some criminal suspects undergoing interrogation in Kwara State to Abuja to make statements to implicate him. Other members of the committee are Senate Leader Ahmad Lawan, Chief Whip Olusola Adeyeye, Minority Leader Godswill Akpabio, Danjuma Goje, Sam Anyanwu, Aliyu Wammako, Fatima Raji-Rasaki, and Oluremi Tinubu. Speaking to the Hausa service of State House Correspondents at the end of the meeting, Senator Abdullahi Adamu said the delegation had came to find out the true situation of things. “What brought about the need to meet with the President came about in the Senate last week,” he said “The Senate President made some comments to the effect that he received a call from his governor, Abdulfatah, that some persons, suspected to be cultists who are undergoing investigation in Ilorin, Kwara state will be transferred to Abuja and it is becoming a problem, that is why the governor intimated him. That is why it was decided that we should come, as leaders in the Assembly, to hear what is going on and if anything can be done about it.” Asked why the police cannot be allowed to perform their duty, Adamu said, “That cannot stop us from coming to see the President on the matter and to hear from him if you really know what has been happening at the Assembly. If there is a harmonious working relationship between the Executive and Legislature, and even the Judiciary, all these types of things will not come up, and even if they do come, not in the way they are coming up now. “A small matter is often overblown and it becomes a problem for everybody. This is the result of some unnecessary utterances because things are not going as expected. “So long as suspicion and accusations continue to exist within the minds of some people who ordinarily shouldn’t have them, these things will continue,” Adamu said. Asked if was politics playing itself out, the lawmaker said, “Of course it is. You don’t need to be told, it is surely politics.” “A senior police officer in Kwara had stated that the name of the Senate President was not mentioned and if that is the case, there is no need for all these emissaries, but since we have decided that a team should come, we have come to hear from the President and he listened to us.” Asked what the President told them, Adamu replied, “I can’t tell you that.”