Laide Raheem, Abeokuta Police in Ogun State on Wednesday paraded two notorious suspected cultists and 46 other suspected criminals, whose crimes range from armed robbery, kidnapping, rape, illegal possession of fire arms and murder. Parading the suspects at headquarters of the police command, Eleweran, Abeokuta, Commissioner of Police Ahmed Iliyasu told newsmen that one of the cultists, 27 year-old Kayode Oreneye, severed the hands of a member of a rival cult gang. Read also: Son of ex-Police spokesman, 5 others paraded for cultism Read also: Again, cultists strike in Ogun community, kill 1 According to Iliyasu, Oreneye, a member of the Eiye Confraternity, allegedly trailed his victim, one Shakiru (a.k.a. “School Boy”) from Abeokuta to Ilaro township, headquarters of Yewa South local government area, where he killed him, severed both hands and later sold them for N5,000 in February this year. Luck, however, ran against him when operatives of the Federal Special Anti Robbery Squad (FARS) apprehended him at a drinking spot in Abeokuta metropolis after attempting to shoot police operatives in order to evade arrest. Oreneye and a father of two had been on the police Wanted List since February, before he was arrested last month, April. Speaking in an interview with journalists, Oreneye, who confessed to committing the crime, said he killed the deceased because “School Boy” had earlier killed four members of his own cult gang, saying that he had on three occasions narrowly escaped being killed by the deceased. He further alleged that Shakiru was a member of the Aiye Confraternity and that each time he was caught by the police, he would present a psychiatric rehabilitation certificate to pretend that he was mentally deranged. Another notorious cult gang member, 23 year old Gbenga Ogunsanya (a.k.a. “Spartacus”), was paraded by the police. Ogunsanya, an alleged member of the Aiye Confraternity, was disclosed to have killed over nine persons between the period of his being initiated into the gang in March 2017 till date. The Commissioner said that the suspect was so infamous that the mere mention of the name ‘Spartacus’ would send shivers down the spine of anyone who knew or had heard of the his notoriety. He was said to be fond of storming social functions with his gang, smashing the windscreens of vehicles and attacking people with an axe. “Spartacus”, who usually moved in the company of 30 men, was eventually arrested in March by FSARS operatives who had been on his trail, according to the Commissioner.