Romanus Ugwu, Abuja A political pressure group, New Generation Leadership Development Foundation (NGLDF) has threatened to deploy every legitimate means to stop political jobbers, third term politicians and people without integrity from contesting the 2019 general elections. Speaking at a press conference in Abuja, the Chairman of the group, Dr. Godwin Udibe, said that the group will deploy sensitization and other legal arsenals to stop third term bid for appointive and elective positions. “Our mission is to purge the Nigerian political space of candidates who do not have credibility and integrity. Any candidate that does not have credibility and has been involved in looting our common patrimony at one time or the other must be discouraged from contesting or running for any political office. “The New Generation leadership is a movement for better polity and governance set to purge and cleanse the electoral and political atmosphere of the Nigerian Nation. “We are going to deploy all legitimate arsenal to ensure that people without integrity, political jobbers and professional politicians and those who have been found wanting of corruption do not hold office again in Nigeria regardless of whatever party they belong to,” the group warned. “We the youths hope to live and show that good behaviour and party patriotism pays. Those youths who have never been part of anti-social behaviour should be rewarded with loan amounts and grants. “No youth will feel excited that someone who was a federal Commissioner for Communication in 1982 would still be recycled as present day Minister of Agriculture. This is 2018, after more than three decades and for whatever reasons, Nigeria has not achieved food sufficiency, after all these years with billions and trillions of Naira and Dollars spent,” the group noted. Fully registered, the group said it wants; “to create a network of youths empowered to make contributions to national, social and economic development. To educate and sensitize on ethical and moral values and promote development and sustainability.” “The New Generation Leadership Development Foundation, proposes a drastic paradigm shift in the way and manner political leadership evolve and the way and manner the business of governance are conducted – No old wine in old wine skin; and No old wine in new wine skin. “Moreover, no recycling of old wine in porous and adulterated wine skin. We believe a government post is a service for the citizens not an honour. “Towards this end, we encourage and recommend educated and responsible youths of industry and integrity to volunteer to run and contest for elections come 2019 in all strata of our polity or give support to credible individuals so interested,” the group noted.