Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa The Bayelsa State House of Assembly has passed a vote of confidence on Governor Henry Seriake Dickson over the on-going reforms which has affected several ghost and redundant workers in ministries, departments, agencies, local government councils and especially in the Bayelsa owned Niger Delta University (NDU). This was even as stakeholders, traditional rulers, representatives of the NDU governing council and Bayelsa State have held a crucial meeting to fashion way out of the crisis rocking Amassoma community which has led protesters to lock NDU over the retirement of several workers in NDU. Labour unions, opposition parties and civil society organisation have, however, cautioned the Seriake Dickson government over the on-going reforms and appealed that the state government apply a human face in its implementations. Speaker of the House of Assembly, Rt. Hon Friday Konbowei Benson, who led lawmakers to rise in defence of Governor Dickson over the ongoing reforms, explained that Bayelsans would be the ultimate beneficiary at the end of the day. According to him, the choice of the deputy governor, Gboribiogha John Jonah, as Chairman of the reforms implementation, demonstrates the seriousness the government attached to it because Jonah is a man of due process. Benson declared that the lawmakers are confident that the outcome of the various investigations would be in line with public service rules. “Therefore, we have no doubts in our minds that while the governor has entrusted to him the task of investigation, we believe the outcome of investigation shall meet best standards, using the civil service reforms. “Those who intend to disrespect, disregard due process and the state government are only demonstrating the answers they owe their instigators. “We, therefore, stand shoulder to shoulder with the governor in the ongoing reform exercise and pass vote of confidence in the governor to ensure that the exercise is well concluded”. Meanwhile, academic activities are to resume in NDU following a resolution signed by all stakeholders after a marathon meeting over the weekend. A communiqué jointly signed by the Amananaowei of Amassoma Kingdom, HRH Major (Rtd) Graham Naingba, Amananaowei of Ogobiri community, HRH Samuel Yekwe, Amassoma CDC Chairman, Biriabebe Samuel, Ogobiri CDC Chairman, Ayama Ebiama, members,  NDU Governing Council, Chiefs Dr. Allen J. American and A. Aduba reads agreed that the NDU governing council school should look at the case of the 375 staff whose salaries were stopped in November 2017.