Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has tasked wives of state governors to step up campaign against drug abuse and other illicit substances prevalent among the nation’s youths. He gave the charge at the Presidential Villa, on Saturday night, when he broke fast with the wives of governors who visited him under the auspices of the Northern and Southern Governors Wives Forum. While commending the governors wives for their interventions in Internally Dispalced Persons camps, the president urged them not to relent in creating awareness on the negative impact of consuming unprescribed drugs.
He also commended the Director General of National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control(NAFDAC), Professor Moji Christianah Adeyeye, on a job well done. Buhari pledged to canvass more support for the governors’ wives through linking them with the Central Bank to enable them key into the anchor borrowers scheme to boost agriculture in the grassroots. “I appreciate the role you are playing as your work helps in pricking the conscience of the people. I want to encourage you to interface with the Central Bank of Nigeria and Federal Ministry of Agriculture over new and existing opportunities that women farmers and entrepreneurs can take advantage of,” he stated. His wife, Aisha, underscored the complementary role that wives of governors play in supporting the programmes and policies of their husbands, urging the governors to encourage them. She highlighted areas where efforts are more pronounced as girl-child education, child abuse, women and youth empowerment and health promotion. “As mothers of the states, wives of governors have the ears of women and youths; this is so because they run programmes that directly touch these categories of Nigerians” calling on the President to support their work.
Chairperson, Northern Governors Wives Forum, and wife of Bauchi Governor, Hadiza Abubakar, said apart from issues of maternal health and girl-child education, the flagship programme of the forum deals with prevention of substance abuse, for which they rally stakeholders for a holistic solution.