Femi Folaranmi, Yenagoa The Bayelsa State Police Command has declared its support for Inspector General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Kpotun Idris ,in the task of fighting crime and criminality in Bayelsa State and Nigeria. The Commissioner of Police, Mr. Donald Awunah who stated this in a press briefing, in Yenagoa ,on Monday, reeled out recent achievements of the Bayelsa State Police Command in combating crime with its new crime fighting initiative, Operation Safer Bayelsa (OSB). Awunah, who disclosed that the Bayelsa State Police command with its new onslaught on cultism through its Anti- Cultism Unit (ACU), has arrested 50 confessed members of cult groups said the Command has mopped up 49 illegal firearms from criminal elements in the state, smashed 15 armed robbery gangs while 15 drug peddlers have been dislodged. “The proliferation of small arms and light weapons in the country has fuelled internal security in the country. It is against this background that the IGP directed Commissioners of Police to mop up arms and ammunition in the country. In Bayelsa , despite the intervention of the Amnesty Programme, considerable number of illegal arms and ammunition are in circulation in Bayelsa state. In compliance with the IGP directive, the command mopped up 49 illegal firearms in the hands of criminal elements in the state. “Drug abuse is one of the major factors that fuels crime. Most Criminal acts are perpetrated under the influence of substance. The Command through actionable intelligence and with the cooperation of members of the public has dislodged 15 drug peddlers in the state. Disrupting their chain of supply.” According to him the success story of the Bayelsa State Police Command was possible due to the “guidance, policy direction, logistics support and motivation of the IGP” Awunah stated that the IGP is a courageous apostle of democratic policing which is an asset to democracy and rule of law. “The IGP has remained an ardent believer in the principles and core values of community policing, a paradigm shift from reactionary traditional policing a driver of the change mantra in Police and a crusader in Police Reforms. A resource person in international policing styles and culture of excellence, an epitome of ethical leadership and a true believer in the Nigerian project.”   