Minister of Power Works and Housing, Babatunde Raji Fashola, has reiterated the commitment of the administration of President Muhammad Buhari to even national development as opposed to partisan politics and would be willing to work with all state governments irrespective of their party affiliations or ethnic divide. Fashola made this remark when he paid courtesy calls  on Governors of Ebonyi State, Engr. David Umahi, Enugu State, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi and  Anambra State, Chief Willi Obiano, at their various  Offices during his three-day working inspection tour of  Federal Government projects in the South East zone of the country. Fashola commended the Governor of Ebonyi state for keying into agricultural initiative of the Federal Government while assuring him of the present administration’s readiness to link Ebonyi and Cameroon through road boarders, which would facilitate international trade for the South Eastern States. The governor, in his response, thanked the Minister for his visit and pleaded with the Minister to facilitate the payment of fund owed his state, which was incurred for maintaining the Federal roads within his domain. While at the Enugu Government house, the Minister enjoined the Governor to work in mutual cooperation with Electric Distribution Company of Nigeria (DISCO) towards having regular supply of power as Federal Government has provided a window for states and corporate bodies to buy power directly.  He also added that the window also provides for individual or state production of private power up to 1 megawatt without conditions attached. Similarly, in Anambra State, the Minister gave account of all the Federal Government projects he had inspected in the state, and on the indebtedness of Federal Government to the state on Road maintenance, the Minister said that what is left is appropriation from the National Assembly. He, however, warned that states must observe due process before they embark on rehabilitation of Federal roads to avoid loss of their investment. Projects inspected in the South East before rounding off his working visit included National Housing Programme in all South East states, Energising Economy Electrification of Ariaria Market in Aba., Rehabilitation of Calabar -Itu-Ikot Ekpene -Aba Road ,Section III, Enugu -Port Harcourt Dual Carriageway Section II among others. The Site of Zik’s Mausoleum and Library Complex in Awka including Second Niger Bridge in Anambra State were also inspected.