…Commits $2m to funding NGOs Google has announced the launch of the ‘Google Impact Challenge Nigeria 2018.’ In line Google will be committing $2 million worth of grant funding to non-profit organisations in the country through the challenge, which will see funding awarded to non-profits using technology to reach their goals. Google is issuing an open call for non-profits in Nigeria to apply to receive their share of $2 million in funding. Four non-profits in Nigeria stand to win $250,000 each while eight runners-up will each get $125,000. Applications are open for the next six months, and organisations can apply online. Winners will be decided by a panel of judges and a public vote. The public vote provides a chance for the people to decide which organisation gets an extra portion of funding to help them impact their community. The winning non-profits will get cash as well as access to guidance, technical assistance and mentorship from Google, which they are free to take up should they so choose. The Nigerian judging panel includes chairman/CEO Channels media group, John Momoh, chairman/CEO, Zinox Technologies, Leo Stan Ekeh, CEO, Parminder Vir, Rapper and CEO of Chocolate City Music Group, MI Abaga, philanthropist and executive director of Nigeria Network of NGOs, Oluseyi Oyebisi, philanthropist and media enterpreneur, Mo Abudu, ex-footballer and founder of the Kanu Heart Foundation, Kanu Nwankwo, managing general partner, EchoVC Partners, Eghosa Omoigui, and Google country director, Juliet Ehimuan-Chiazor. The Google Impact Challenge Nigeria will close on the July 4, 2018. The final awards ceremony will be held during the week of November 26. At Google for Nigeria in July last year, Google CEO, Sundar Pichai, announced Google’s commitment to providing $20 million funding to African non-profits over five years. This is the first initiative aimed at realising that commitment. Speaking on the announcement, Google country marketing manager, Affiong Osuchukwu, said, “This is the first time we are running a Google Impact Challenge in Africa. Many African non-profits are doing great work with real impact and we’re keen to shine a light on them, and give a financial boost to innovative projects and ideas. We believe technology can help local and national organisations to better reach their goals and solve some of the continent’s most pressing challenges, and we are eager to back people who are using technology in new ways to make a positive difference in their communities.”