Wole Balogun, Ado-Ekiti The only female aspirant of the July 14 governorship poll, Dr. Mojisola Yaya-Kolade , who is a physician, midwife, nurse and entrepreneur and a farmer and employer of labour, has warned delegates that they should not sell their conscience by voting money bag aspirant who cannot win the election for the All Progressive Congress (APC) which is her platform. She specifically singles out an ex-governor who is allegedly being imposed by the national leadership of the party and allegedly buying votes of delegates with huge amount of money, saying the party would lose is such an aspirant emerges winner on Saturday. She said: “It would be disheartening if the man we have all been afraid may be imposed on us or is buying votes of delegates with huge money wins, because i have been around for a while and I would be saddened by such development because it becomes obvious to me if any candidate that the people does not want emerges as the candidate, APC will lose the election Boasting that she will win the primary, she said: “I am going to win the primary , there is some allegations that some delegates are selling their voting right, but I believe that somehow, God would touch their heart and they would see the reality of voting for the best candidate and instead vote for a candidate that could win the governorship election for APC.
” I the best candidate that can win the election and provide the best governance for Ekiti. Give job, sound education, healthcare and infrastructural development and what have you.I have been on ground for a long time and I represent the women interest. She also advised the delegates saying:'” I advise the delegates, do not sell tour conscience. Please make an intelligent decision think about their future if they sell their votes to the highest bidder, they would suffer for the next four years.
His Excellency , Governor Tanko Al-Makura did the best he could do. I salute his courage, humility and efforts to get the best I believe strongly that everything will go well provided all aspirants abide by the rules and regulations laid down for the race.”