Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, has dismissed the claim of marginalisation by some members of the new Peoples Democratic Party (nPDP) in the All Progressive Congress (APC), insisting that all of them have benefited tremendously from the present administration. Ganduje, who is also a member of the nPDP caucus which dissolved into the APC, said he was astonished by such claims. He insisted that all of them are being carried along by the present administration.
Ganduje, who said these during a media parley at Government House in Kano, added that the Senate President, Bukola Saraki and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, have no reason to complain about anything. He said: “Some few members of the nPDP  (which is not even a group in that nomenclature, because now we are one in the APC) went to the party’s national secretariat and presented a paper that they were marginalised.
“The majority of the defunct nPDP (which I am a member) also went to the national secretariat to state that those that were there earlier, in the name of nPDP, were not the true representatives of the nPDP. Also, we said we are not part of those being marginalised. “Let me give you examples to show they are not being marginalised. First of all, the Senate President is from the defunct nPDP. He also controls very important committees in which he singlehandedly approved chairmen of 30 committees. That is not marginalisation. “The governor of Kwara State is, also, a member of the nPDP. He has a whole government. How can he say he is marginalised? You have the Speaker of House of Representatives, who is a member of the nPDP and a Speaker under the banner of APC. How can he say he is being marginalised? He controls lucrative committees. He appoints the chairmen and membership of the committees, singlehandedly, without interference from the executive. How can he say he is being marginalised? “So you can see the issue of marginalisation is not there. Therefore, we the majority of the nPDP, are disclaiming the allegation and we believe we are not being marginalised. “The governor of Adamawa State is a member of nPDP. I am from nPDP and now a governor. Most of  us from the nPDP are senators and House of Representative members.