Although the other governors were not around, the greater number of others promised to do everything possible to deliver Buhari during the 2019 presidential polls Ismail Omipidan and Romanus Ugwu, Abuja No fewer than four All Progressives Congress (APC) governors were conspicuously missing, on Sunday, at the Abuja venue of the APC Presidential Convention to ratify President Muhammadu Buhari as the party’s candidate for the 2019 presidential election. Our correspondents at the event gathered that while some of the governors boycotted the National Convention to register their grievances over the maltreatment the national leadership of the party melted on them, others stayed out to fight the battle raging in their states for the conduct of rescheduled primaries. The governors conspicuously missing included Ogun State’s Ibikunle Amosun, who is still nursing the wound of rejecting his choice aspirant for the governorship primaries, Zamfara State’s Abdul’aziz Yari, who even threatened to unleash terror on anybody the national leadership of the party sent to the state to conduct the rescheduled governorship and legislative primaries. In fact, the Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State, who was billed to speak as Chairman of the APC Governors Forum was equally absent as he was said to be sweating it out in Owerri for the rescheduled governorship and legislative primaries. His Adamawa State counterpart, Bindow Jibrilla, seemed to care less about the Abuja National Convention as he fought the battle of his life to wrestle his second term ticket from political titans like Nuhu Ribadu, among others. Although the other governors were not around, the greater number of others, however, promised to do everything humanly and legally possible to deliver President Buhari during the 2019 presidential polls. Governor Rotimi Akereduolu of Ondo State, who stood in for Okorocha, the Chairman of Progressives Forum, commended President Buhari for discharging his responsibilities creditably, emphasising that ‘all Nigerians bear witness to the fact that you have done it creditably’. “I must say that today, my heart flow with profound gratitude to God who has made it possible for all of us to be gathered at this historic event. “It is historic because we are starting a new journey because Mr. President has just won an election to be the candidate in what I will term his last political journey. “By the grace of God, when Mr. President is elected next year for a second term, we are sure that will be his last political journey. “In 2015, there was total political shake up in this country and what occur was unbelievable. “You performed what could best be described as impossibility by defeating an incumbent regime. “I stand here on behalf of your governors to affirm that you have discharged your responsibility creditably. All Nigerians bear witness to the fact that you have done it creditably. “You promised us see security and today I can say to you that no section of the country is under insurgency. “You have turned around our economy from a mono economy and one thing that we all cannot forget is that within a short time, Nigeria was out of recession. “That is a feat we will all be proud of. Your administration is like a dream to many of us because you have done well and we all affirm this. “That is why we are here. We are set to begin another journey and we don’t want to take anything for granted. “Let us prepare for it because this is the second battle for APC and it is one that we must win and we will win this battle by the grace of God. “Our President will be returned as President in 2019 and this is the task for all of us. As governors, we will lead to your campaign and will ensure to your victory,” he assured President Buhari.