Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has denied plans to sell the Ajaokuta Steel complex, stating that the Federal Government was rather looking for ways to better put the company into use. The Governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello, disclosed this to State House Correspondents after he led a delegation to find out from the Vice President if the report on the planned sale was true. The Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) , Godwin Emefiele, had hinted that the aim of the planned sale is to raise more money to implement the country’s 2018 deficit-based budget. The Nigerian Security Printing and Minting Company Limited Plc, which was offloaded, with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) owning a majority stake, emerged the preferred buyer, given the company’s security status. Emefiele, who addressed Nigerian delegation at the just-concluded International Monetary Fund/World Bank Group meetings in Bali, Indonesia, disclosed that more national asset would be going to market soon. READ ALSO FG slashes 2019 Budget size to N8.6tr from N9.1tr He had stated: “I am aware, as a member of the National Council on Privatisation (NCP) that more are coming and I believe, in due course, that the Bureau of Public Enterprise (BPE) will make this available for us. I am aware of the situation of Ajaokuta Steel Company of Nigeria. “It is also on the cart, first for a total review of the process of privatisation and payment, so that our aluminum sector can eventually come alive”. But Bello told newsmen that, “First of all, the Vice President, being the Chairman of the National Economic Council, came to make some enquiries from him over the purported sale of Ajaokuta Steel Complex and he had indicated that there is nothing like that. He said there is no plan by the Federal Government to sale Ajaokuta Steel Company. “The VP said Ajaokuta is an asset of the Federal Government and that they are looking into how best to make good use of that particular complex for the benefit of Nigerians at large.” The Kogi Governor said he also informed the Vice President of the upcoming coronation of the new Oba of Kabba on Saturday, saying, “we came to notify him as a father of the event that is coming up on Saturday and to seek his blessings.” On the preparation for 2019 general elections he said: “every primary can be anchored out and everybody can hustle for one ticket or another. I can assure you that we have a capable leadership of the party – President Muhammadu Buhari. Also, we have our able chairman, Comrade Adams Aliyu Oshiomole who is doing his best to ensure that the party is strong and the party is really very strong. As for the general elections, in Kogi State, we are 100 per cent ready and we are going to sweep all the states. And by the grace of God, we shall bring out a vote that has never been witnessed in the North Central. I can assure you as well that the 2019 elections for Mr President, it’s going to be a walk over by the grace of God.” 