…Elects 30 Assembly candidates in Anambra Aloysius Attah, Onitsha The Independent Democrats (ID) has elected 30 House of Assembly candidates of the party for the 2019 general election in Anambra State. The candidates emerged in an affirmation primary conducted, on Wednesday, through its delegates drawn from 326 electoral wards in Anambra State. Speaking at the party secretariat where the winners’ names were affirmed, National Chairman of ID Party, Chief Edozie Madu, explained that about 100 aspirants bought forms for the election. Madu reminded delegates that the party was contesting for all political positions in the country, and was fully prepared to take over the federal and states government through its grassroots mobilisation and quality candidates. He clarified that the party would fill candidates for all positions at the state and national levels, and was not contemplating of adopting or supporting any other political party. Madu added that the ID would elect National Assembly candidates and a Presidential standard-bearer of their party would emerge at the primaries holding on Thursday and Friday, respectively. According to him, Nigeria has outgrown voting for political parties but quality candidates based on their mission statements and antecedents. READ ALSO: Save us from land grabbers, police assault, Lagos residents beg IGP He said he was optimistic that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) would conduct free and fair polls but adviced the electoral umpire to henceforth, start collation of votes across all collation centres simultaneously to curb rigging. Earlier, the Anambra State Chairman of the party, Hon. Ikechukwu Okafor, thanked the candidates and delegates for conducting themselves peacefully throughout the processes leading to the party primary. Okafor, while saying that the bulk of the aspirants that bought forms  later stepped down for the eventual winners, however, urged party faithful  to join hands with the party to deliver the candidates through grassroots campaign.