Preparations for the 2nd edition of the Power Safety Summit and Exhibition has advanced, as stakeholders from across the globe are set to gather in Abuja to appraise issues of Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) in the power sector value chain. The Venue of the Summit, billed for October 23-24, ,  is the International Conference Centre, Abuja and the theme is Vision Zero Incident in the Power Sector Value Chain. Barring any hitches, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo is expected to declare the summit and exhibition open as talk-shop participants would appraise and recommend best global practices to mitigate incidences, accidents and fatalities in the Power Sector. READ ALSO Bailout: 17 states still owe pensions, salaries – BudgIT Organisers of the summit said they are conscious of the challenges of managing an ever expanding industry like the power sector with regards to safety of investors’ equipment, safety of the operators as well as safety of consumers. Recent statistics show a continuous rise in public safety incidences, a disturbing phenomenon that portends danger both to the operators and consumers respectively with issues of vandalism, energy theft and illegal connections continue to fuel public fatalities round the networks escalating across the country. Public safety should preoccupy the entire length and breadth of Power management from the planning, infrastructure design, installation, project delivery, to raising the consciousness of electricity consumers on how not to mismanage power infrastructure both in their homes and other areas of the demand and supply value chain. The Power Summit has the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) as Host and platinum sponsor, in addition to endorsements from the Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing, Nigeria Electricity Management Services Agency (NEMSA), Nigeria Electricity Regulation Commission (NERC), and Transmission Company of Nigeria. Others are the Niger Delta Power Holding Company (NDPHC), Rural Electrification Agency (REA), Association of Power Generation Companies (APGC), Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors (ANED), License Electrical Contractors Association of Nigeria (LECAN) and Electricity Meter Manufacturers (EMMAN/MAP). Confirmed Speakers for the Summit are, the Honourable Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Raji Fashola, SAN, Louis Edozien, Permanent Secretary (Power), Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing, Professor of Robotics Engineering and former Minister of Power Professor. Barth Nnaji,  the Chief Electrical Inspector of the Federation and Managing Director, Chief Executive Nigerian Electricity Management Services Agency (NEMSA) Engr. (Sir) Peter Ewesor, FNSE, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Nigerian