Isaac Anumihe, Abuja Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, has said alleged move by governors to remove the chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, may not succeed, until all the processes are exhausted. Speaking after he launched Afrinvest Nigerian Banking Sector Report 2018, in Abuja, Obaseki said the move may not succeed because there are processes to remove the party chairman and those processes must be followed before a chairman of a party is removed. “I am not aware that they want to remove him. There are processes to remove a party chairman. The governors have not exhausted those processes…” Obaseki said. READ ALSO: Rumoured defection: I’m going nowhere, says Ekweremadu On the impeachment of the states deputy speaker, he said the matter is purely legislative and domestic but promised that the party would step into the fray with a view to resolving it. “The legislature is an independent arm of government. They have their own logic. It is an issue we are intervening to make sure it is resolved. “This is purely a domestic affair. The state party will find out what the issues are,” he promised. The governor noted that the forthcoming  political campaign would be based on the economy. He said so much investment has been made by the Muhammadu Buhari government. “We are going to campaign on economy because so much has been done through the national investment programme. “There are a lot of interventions. “The central bank has undertaken to support the real economy and to support the economic growth. These are concrete achievements of governments. “We have taken the country out of recession. So, the next step is to invest massively in infrastructure. READ ALSO: Return of the EEG: What the National Assembly should do “So, the election will be on how to improve the economy and how to improve the lot of Nigerians,” he said. However, the Group Managing Director of Afrinvest, West Africa Limited, Mr Ike Chioke, urged government to do more in the area of security. He said insecurity can drive away investment and it would affect the economy. Meanwhile, Obaseki has said his commitment to human development in the state stems from the desire to groom a repertoire of human capital who will not only drive the local economy, but, also, compete favourably with their peers across the world for opportunities in the coming decades. He disclosed this when he met with top business executives, on the sidelines of the 24th edition of the Nigeria Economic Summit, in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, with the theme “Poverty to Prosperity: Making governance and institutions work, yesterday.