The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) said come 2019, all elections would be boycotted until all those with their warped sense of national unity see and agree to a referendum on self determination. The group however called on the good people of Middle Belt- the Fulani enslaved majority of northern Nigeria and progressive elements in Yorubaland, to join IPOB in locking down 70 per cent of Nigeria landmass during upcoming 2019 general elections. The media and publicity secretary of IPOB, Emma Powerful, in a statement said IPOB would ensure that no election is conducted in the South East and South South by next year. Powerful said: “Nigeria is not united and can never be under the present ‘militaristic unitary arrangement’. Nigeria as a British experiment at nation creation is a complete and total disaster, a failed project of disastrous proportions. It appears the only thing holding Nigeria together is the corrupt tendencies of the badly educated ruling class, determined to hold everybody down as they advance their cabaslistic group interest at the expense of the well-being of the masses”. READ ALSO: Adamawa Guber: Bindow, Modi, Ribadu, deadlocked over primaries rescheduling “Voting and electioneering is the only national project they are all bothered about because that remains the only way they can publicly legitimize their criminally corrupt political enterprise. 2019 elections is their sole motivator and rigging remains their one true route into office and endless looting”. “The only way to enthrone lasting positive change based on liberty, freedom and rule of law is for every right person, both home and abroad, to not only boycott elections but to prevail on their relatives to do the same. It is becoming more obvious as days go by that elections in Nigeria under current constitutional arrangement, is nothing but a sophisticated way for political criminals to ride on the notion of popular mandate, through a flawed system of rigging, to gain unfettered access to public funds”. “They have no idea as to what democracy, rule of law or governance in public interest is all about. What we have is a political class and electoral machinery designed to promote and enthrone criminality at the highest levels of government”. “Ordinary people will continue to suffer and die in poverty and misery until power is returned to ordinary masses through election boycott and subsequent popular uprising” “If we vote in 2019, we would be renewing their mandate to ruin Nigeria the more for another four years. The fake elections held in Ekiti and Osun States recently states shows clearly and beyond every reasonable doubt that voting in Nigeria is useless and counterproductive”. READ ALSO: Women club in Ibadan protest continuous Leah’s captivity by Boko-Haram “An open day robbery by APC Party through the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) headed by Buhari’s nephew in Ekiti and Osun was a perfected coup against humanity and especially the Yoruba nation. Therefore the masses must reason for once and stop every move by desperate politicians to force them to vote next year. The day everybody joins IPOB in election boycott, things will never be the same again, it will improve for the betterment of all”. “It is important every Nigerian understand that your PVC is no more useful than a piece of rope around your neck. Only a boycott of elections in 2019 can save lives. Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) cannot guarantee your vote because they are a Fulani caliphate institution. They are headed by Fulani, they are compromised, they will always rig to favor the core north; the only solution is total boycott. That is the only way to bring the electoral madness and cycle of misery to an end” Powerful stated.  