Noah Ebije, Kaduna Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai, has tasked the Federal Government to compensate victims of the 2011 post election violence in the state, to forestall similar crisis in the State. El-Rufai said worship centres destroyed during the crisis were yet to be reconstructed seven years after. The governor spoke during a security meeting with the traditional rulers in the state, following Sunday’s bloody crisis in the state capital and earlier mayhem in Kasuwan Magani area of the state, where over 55 persons were killed. He said: “It is sad that many of the places of worship that were destroyed in the crises since 2011 are yet to be reconstructed. We need to achieve closure on resettlement of displayed persons, payment of compensation to 2011 victims and the reconstruction of destroyed properties. READ ALSO: Make informed choices in 2019, CCG urges Nigerians We have, therefore, approached the federal government to provide the balance of 53 percent of assessed compensation to enable victims rebuild their lives, and for all places of worship to be restored.” He said the Kaduna State Government will continue to advance the course of peace on many fronts. “As a government committed to promoting equality of opportunity, we intend to help promote prosperity by rebuilding and modernising markets in places impacted by conflict. The market in Kafanchan is already being rebuilt. We shall be extending this to the overstretched or destroyed markets in places such as Zonkwa, Zangon-Kataf, Kasuwan Magani and Kujama. “The goal is to ensure that the new markets will accommodate not only the existing and previous shop owners, but, also, others who aspire to and are able to own shops.Perceptions that there are insurmountable barriers to securing trading places in markets will be erased in the new, expanded and modernised markets. The designs for these markets will include space to host police formations. “Your Royal Highnesses, you all have a fundamental role to play as pillars of peace and lawful conduct. We look forward to hosting these meetings every quarter to sustain our efforts to promote nifty, peaceful coexistence and progress in our state. “On behalf of the Kaduna State Government, I wish to acknowledge the efforts of your Royal Highnesses in the cause of peace in our state. “As you are aware, there have been breaches of the peace since Thursday, October 18, 2018, when unrest broke out in Kasuwan Magani. The state government promptly imposed a curfew in the area.” El-Rufai described the number of lives lossed as staggering and said, at least, 55 corpses were recovered and the damage to livelihoods considerable. “A brazen crime was committed. We owe the victims justice, and our state respite from the impunity of those who have arrogated to themselves the authority to wantonly violate lives, livelihoods and the rights of others. READ ALSO: Ekiti Assembly to probe Fayose’s N10bn supplementary budget “The necessity to apply the law vigorously is illustrated by the panic and anxiety that spread into our capital city and environs, as people spread vile rumours on Sunday, October 21, 2018. Hoodlums exploited the situation to engage in further criminal activity and to violate the rights of other citizens. The aftermath of the disinformation and resulting panic led to the death of another 22 citizens, injuries to 44 persons and destruction of property within Kaduna metropolis. Some of the injured have been discharged, but 34 others are still receiving medical attention. 