Wike told newsmen, after Fayose was received by EFCC officials, that “he wrote a letter to EFCC that he will submit himself on October 16.” Iheanacho Nwosu, Abuja Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, former Aviation minister, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode and Chief Mike Ozekhome led immediate past governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose, to the waiting arms of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), yesterday. Fayose clad in jeans trouser with blue t-shirt, with the inscription: “EFCC, I Am Here!” clutched a small handbag, believed to contain his personal effects as he was led into the Commission. The former governor arrived at the EFCC Annex in Wuse 2, at exactly 12.59 pm, a minute before the scheduled 1:00pm he announced that he would report at the Commission. His tenure as governor ended on Monday. Last Saturday, he presented his “Handover Note’’ to his successor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, who was inaugurated on Tuesday. Speaking to newsmen on arrival at the EFCC office, the former governor said: “I am here, in line with my promise that I will be here on October 16. This morning (yesterday) they went to my house; cordoned off my street, which I felt, personally, was unnecessary. It was unwarranted. “When a man says he is coming, Nigerians should be given benefit of the doubt. I led Ekiti and the best I could give, I have given. Therefore, every question, whatever they need to ask today (yesterday), I will be able to respond appropriately.” Wike told newsmen, after Fayose was received by EFCC officials, that “he wrote a letter to EFCC that he will submit himself on October 16. He is hale and hearty and I believe that EFCC should know he is well. Our fear, from the present report, that we have, is that he may be harmed. “But, let Nigerians know that he came by himself to the EFCC; without anybody harassing him. “So, that was why I brought him here today.” On his part, Fani-Kayode said: “We are here to stand in solidarity with our friend and brother. “He is going in hale and hearty; we trust God and we believe he will come out the same way. “And, as authority, we take note of the fact that the international community and the whole world is watching what is going to happen here; what they are going to do to him.” Earlier, a mild drama ensued outside the Tunde Idiagbon House headquarters of the EFCC, when operatives attempted to bar Fani-Kayode, from accompanying Fayose into the premises. Fani-Kayode, who obtained an LL.B from the School of Oriental and African Studies and a Masters degree from Cambridge University, noted that he was a lawyer and had practised in Nigeria.After challenging the security officials with his credentials, he was allowed in. Fayose was released yesterday evening. 