Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari, on Friday, assured that his administration remains focused and more energized in ensuring accountability in the country, noting that enforcing the Treasury Single Account (TSA) was not optional for growth. This is even as he has called on accountants in the country to remain focused and support the government in the ongoing fight against corruption, warning that they might not be liked by many people because of their professional ethics, but the sacrifice was necessary for the country to grow. In a statement by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina said, President Buhari stated this when he received executives of the Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN), led by Alhaji Shehu Usman Ladan, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The President stressed that insistence on the financial structure required much sacrifice and focus on the part of the government as “accountability’’ was no longer optional. READ ALSO: JUST IN: Again, Buhari meets Kano, Zamfara, Ogun govs behind closed doors “One of the cardinal objectives of this administration is that people and all government institutions must give account for what comes in and goes out. “We did not introduce TSA, but we enforced it. TSA makes a lot of sense that you must have to give account for whatever comes in and goes out in government finance; that’s accountability,” he said. In his remarks, Alhaji Ladan, who is the President of ANAN, commended President Buhari for the laudable achievements in ensuring an inclusive and strong economy by plugging leakages, and making youth empowerment and infrastructure top priority. “This government has instilled fiscal discipline by plugging leakages,’’ he said, adding that Nigeria’s image in the comity of nations had also improved significantly, attracting more Foreign Direct Investments. The ANAN President noted that the President’s assent to the Not-Too-Young-To- Run bill further encouraged youth participation in governance. He said the fight against terrorism was commendable as the Boko Haram insurgents had been degraded, extoling the administration’s effort in getting the economy out of recession, and repositioning it for diversity through agriculture. “Your second term, Mr. President, will bring more succour to Nigerians,” he added. 