“I need to bring this issue to the attention of the Senate. The NNPC is operating an illegal fund on subsidy.” – Senator Biodun Olujimi Fred Itua, Abuja Core supporters of President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday clashed on the floor of the Senate, over plans by the upper legislative chamber to probe an alleged operation of a $3.8 billion Fuel Subsidy Recovery Fund by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). The three senators who clashed are Ahmed Lawan, who doubles as Senate Leader, Ali Ndume and Kabiru Marafa. The three senators are members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and staunch supporters of the President. Trouble started when the new Senate Minority Leader, Biodun Olujimi, raised a point of order to protest the alleged operation of the account. Olujimi told her colleagues that, despite attempts to compel the leadership of NNPC to submit a proper budget to the National Assembly on subsidy payment, it has instead opted for an illegal fund not approved by the parliament. She claimed that only two top officials in NNPC were directly in charge of the management of the funds, without any oversight. He named the Group Managing Director (GMD) and the Executive Director in charge of Finance as managers of the fund. “I need to bring this issue to the attention of the Senate. The NNPC is operating an illegal fund on subsidy. As a Senate, we are the true representatives of the people. We cannot sit back and allow this to happen. “I am bringing this to the attention of the Senate so that we can look at the issue. Let the various committees, especially the Senate Committee on Petroleum (Downstream), look into this issue. Let them investigate and tell us what the position on ground is,” Olujimi told her colleagues. As soon as the Minority Leader concluded, Ndume added his voice. In his contribution, he urged the leadership of the Senate not to include the Marafa-led Petroleum (Downstream) Committee members in the proposed probe of NNPC. Ndume alleged that members of the panel may have compromised in the line of duty. He argued that as the standing Committee charged with the responsibility of overseeing the affairs of NNPC, it ought to have raised the alarm on the alleged illegal subsidy fund. “Issues like this should be looked at seriously. When these things happen, the committee should know. I suggest that the Leader and other people who are not members of the committee should look at this. The committee may have compromised. We should set up an ad hoc committee,” Ndume suggested. Ruling on the issue, President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, mandated the Leader of the Senate, Lawan, to oversee the probe. He urged him to lead members of Petroleum (Downstream) Committee to meet with the management of NNPC and ascertain the true position of things. Saraki said he didn’t want to politicise the issue, arguing that it was too sensitive to be treated with laxity. Lawan was given four days to report to the Senate, after which a proper adhoc panel will be set up to probe the allegations. Saraki stated: “When we passed a budget, I said the executive needed to bring a subsidy budget. In light of the enormity of this, we will direct the Leader and Chairman of Downstream to summon those in charge. They need to get back to us in four days. I don’t want this issue to be partisan. I want us to speak on the basis of fact. I don’t want us to take up this issue and people will begin to see it as a partisan issue.” Obviously angered by Ndume’s claim, Marafa fired back. He said those advocating that an ad hoc committee be set up in place of his standing committee, are out to generate campaign funds ahead of their elections in 2019. He insisted that Ndume must withdraw the statement And tender an apology. Marafa also defended NNPC and claimed that the allegations were false. “I feel insulted. If the Selection Committee agrees today to dissolve our committee, I will not any problem with that. They have the right to do that. But for anyone to just accuse of us that we have been compromised, I think it is an insult. “I know that those advocating that an ad hoc committee be set up to investigate the issue, are out to generate campaign funds for their election next year. They are free to do so. I will not stop them. But no one should malign us and accuse us of compromise,” Marafa fired. Attempts by Saraki to restrain Marafa failed. He refused to apologise and insisted that Ndume must tender an apology first and also withdraw his claims. Ndume eventually apologized and withdrew his statement. Marafa also withdrew his statement and apologised to his colleagues. Saraki had already ruled on the issue, when the Senate Leader, Lawan suddenly protested. He said he was declining his nomination to head the team that will probe NNPC and report back to the Senate. He hinged his excuse on the fact that he didn’t want his name to be rubbished. Apparently referring to Marafa, Lawan said it took him several years to build his reputation and will therefore not be maligned by anyone. Saraki and Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, prevailed on him to rescind his decision. Saraki specifically reminded him that he could not decline the nomination since he was the Leader of the Senate. “By virtue of your position as Leader of the Senate, this responsibility falls on you. I do not want this issue to be politicised and as Leader of the Senate, I need you to handle this on behalf of the Senate,” Saraki ruled.