“A plus- sized woman is the best any man can have as wife. Plus-sized women are sexy, gorgeous, beautiful, and very kind-hearted and accommodating.” Tony John Miss Doris Ijeoma Anyanwu is an entrepreneur and down-to-earth plus-sized lady. Recently, she emerged second runner-up in the Miss Big Bold and Beautiful South-South 2018 pageant. In this chat, she talks about her background, career, Glamsisters, and why plus-sized ladies make the best of wives. Enjoy it. I was born into the family of five. I am the first child and first daughter of Chief and Chief (Mrs.) Victor Umunna Anyanwu of Umuevu Umuokrika in Ahiazu Mbaise Local Government Area of Imo state. For me, growing up was quite rosy because my parents were comfortable and gave us the best. But, along the line, a lot changed after the death of my beloved father on January 6, 2004. It wasn’t really easy with my young and beautiful widowed mother. But she tried her best to shoulder her responsibilities and I thank God for everything so far. Dad would always say to me, ‘anything worth doing is worth doing well, it really pays to be kind and nice to people, a good name is very important and education is the ultimate’. My father was a realist and a very good man. He always stood for the truth at all times no matter how bitter it might seem, and I took after him in that aspect. Everything.. I miss his words of wisdom, his loving and caring nature. He was a very kind man. I miss his advice; he was the best father any child could have. Life has taught me to never put my trust or depend on anybody, no matter who the person is. I should depend only on God almighty.. I wouldn’t say ‘spite’ because I believe everybody can’t love me. I’ve not really met any man who would spite me because of my size. If he doesn’t love plus-sized women, why will he come to me in the first place? Yes, a number of times, most especially, in commercial buses where people often say ‘aunty abeg pay for two seats. Again, sometimes, someone who doesn’t know me will just walk up to me and start advertising weight loss herbs. Of course, I do. But I don’t take it to heart. I just ignore and smile. Well, that’s your own perspective. From my own point of view, lots of plus-sized women out there are married and are still getting married. Plus-sized brides are trending all over the place. We have proofs all over the social media. If you don’t have a plus-sized bride, you’re at a loss. Yes, 100 percent sure! A plus- sized woman is the best any man can have as wife. Plus-sized women are sexy, gorgeous, beautiful, and above all, very kind-hearted and accommodating. Plus-sized women make the best wives. Our curves, thighs, hips, boobs and butts are natural. God has made us endowed. We don’t need man-made hips and pads to look sexy. No, I’m not. I’m not a snub. Relationships don’t work for me no matter how hard I try. It’s not my thing, even though I’m open-minded and ready to experience real love. My driving force is the passion I have developed and still have for what I do. It is the ‘never say die spirit’, the resilience and persistence, the sense of independence and my determination to succeed in life. Firstly, it’s my love for animals. I’m a snail, geese and duck farmer. I developed a passion for it. I researched and gained vast workable practical and theoretical knowledge about it! Snail is a livestock with the lowest risk factor. It has one of the highest values (money) of any livestock; at the long run is the low risk and time involved, and it gives me time to go about my other businesses. Also, I deal in designer perfumes and make beautiful, gorgeous hats, including fascinators and turbans for women. Glamsisters is a group that celebrates, empowers and unites sophisticated, classy, fabulous, curvy and confident females, with a common mission to correct the distorted perception of curvy females around the world; while uniting, empowering and educating them to celebrate, embrace and enhance their beauty, fashion and their curves. As an individual, I am faced with people cajoling and name-calling me because of my size. I am also faced with challenges of relatives always reminding me that I am fat. People calling your attention to your food preference and recommending slimming herbs for you. And for Glamsisters as an organisation made up of females, people perceive us to be lesbians, they see us as women who have failed in life, they see us as depressed women who want to have their lives back. We also have financial setbacks to embark on projects for the growth of the organisation, most especially, the charity outreach. I saw it as an opportunity to showcase myself as a big, bold and beautiful plus-sized woman. I also saw it as an opportunity to encourage other plus-sized women out there, by making them understand that they are beautiful, giving them a sense of belonging in the society, and that they can do anything they set their minds on. As a runner-up, I intend giving back to the society through charity outreach by creating a foundation that will support the less-privileged children. I am also organising free skills acquisition for widows and supporting them with food items. I maintain fitness by eating right and exercising regularly. Click Here>>>>>>Anti-kidnap and anti-theft device for tracking and listening<<<<<< 