It is capital intensive keeping a side chick because you are practically running two homes. Let your financial strength guide you… Amaka Nicholas Men, if you must have a side chick, bear in mind that your side chick will always come third after your family and your job. Once those two needs you, be up and gone. Don’t even give her the slightest hope to feel she has any chances of becoming your main woman. You should never gift her same car, house, clothes, perfumes you gave to your partner. You may just be giving her the confidence to start rubbing shoulders with your main woman. Always have a plan B, expect to terminate already made plans with your side chick at the last minute if your woman becomes suspicious. You should also go to any length to keep her away from finding out the other woman exists. Attending social events with your side chick as a couple or even sewing and wearing uniforms should be a no-go-area. You can throw your side chick a birthday bash but don’t show your face there. If you must be there, be smart not to be clingy or appear in pictures. No matter what, do not speak lowly of your woman or even report your fights to your side hustle. As much as possible, speak less of her and if your side chick cast aspersions on your spouse or partner, caution her immediately. She doesn’t have such rights. Are you one of those men who spend all their salaries and earnings on side chicks just to impress and prove to them you are a big boy? You are just foolish. Your family should be your priority. Take care of family and have good investments before impressing chicks on the streets. It is capital intensive keeping a side chick because you are practically running two homes. Let your financial strength guide you and not make you become irresponsible to your family duties. While scouting for a side chick, look for a woman who has something to lose should your relationship go public, not the attention seeking type who doesn’t understand that you don’t need all the public attention your secret affair might cause. Always have the consciousness that you could get caught at any time, so decide already how you will react and the possible lies to tell once it happens. Don’t be caught tongue tied. If you feel the relationship with your side chick is over, do not ghost her or expect that she reads in-between the lines and leave you alone, spell it out or spoil for a big fight then call it quits afterwards. Tell her clearly that it is over and stand by it. If she calls it quits with you because she has found someone else or she feels she deserves better, be a gentle man and accept her decision in good fate. Wish her well and never threaten her or insist she stays. In the end, you are the only one who can decide what you want out of life. That you keep other women outside doesn’t mean your partner is not good enough, it only shows that you are just not disciplined when it comes to staying faithful. ____________________________________ Amaka, encouraging single ladies to hook up with married men is most useless advice ever. Any single lady that has anything to do with a married man should as well forget about getting married at all. -2348033027… My dear sister, you know that being a side chick is a sin against God almighty, your so called advice on how to be a ‘good’ one is wrong. Stop pushing souls to hell fire with your advice on sins like that. Repent, mend your ways right with Jesus Christ because he’s coming sooner than expected” -Franca, Lagos I bid you to repent, drop your services to Satan before it is too late. Give my sympathy to your husband if you have any. -Sir Nze Nwata David, Aba Thanks for the reality check, in fact you are real. Thanks. -Kehinde Olaopa Isero, Ibadan I don’t believe anyone should die in a marriage. If it is not working and you have done all you can as a human being, you can leave. If you have prayed and nothing is changing for the better, it’s time to move on but not to side chicks, just marry properly. –Ronke Amaka, I kept smiling and laughing from the first drop of your pen to last word on how to be a good side chick. The truth is bitter, this is a daily reality. Even as a pastor I was twice tempted with side chicks as you put it, but overcame strongly by determination and God’s grace. Side chicks are ultimate losers. What goes around comes around. -Apostle Chucks, Umuahia Aunty Amaka, I read your article on how to be a good side chick. Please sister, what is your aim with this article? How will you feel if the side chick in quote is dating your husband? Are you trying to encourage immorality? -2348185515… How many side chicks are you giving this expo? Of course, most of them are not in line with news not to talk of news paper write-ups. Well, thanks for the insight you have given to men. It is very educative, but along the line, it’s not encouraging to married women, because it is an open secret in the heart of home breakers. -234816991… Amaka, you are one of the most wonderful teachers when it comes to relationships. Thanks for educating women and men wisely. I appreciate. -Charles, Abuja