Molly Kilete, Abuja The Police Force Headquarters, in Abuja, said 90 persons, suspected to have masterminded the killings of innocents persons and destroyed property worth millions of Naira, at Kasuwar Magani town and other part of Kaduna South, have been arrested. The Force Public Relations Officer, Jimoh Moshood, who made this known at a media briefing, said 43 suspects were currently being prosecuted, while the remaining 50 were currently in police custody and under investigation. He said the suspects would be arraigned in court as soon as investigations were completed. The police spokesman who said normalcy had been restored to all parts of Kaduna State, said the police had intensified efforts to arrest other suspects who are still at large. To ensure a lasting peace in the state, Jimoh said the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris, had directed the Assistant Inspector General of Police, in charge of Zone 7, to meet with all the  stakeholders in the State to give peace a chance and sustain the normalcy that have been restored. According to him, “Peace and normalcy have been restored throughout Kaduna State, most especially at Kasuwar Magani Town and other part of Kaduna South. “A total number of 93 Suspects were arrested in connection with the multiple killings and wanton destruction of private and public properties worth millions of Naira in the state. READ ALSO: Ogun LP accuses Daniel, Kashamu of plot to hijack party Forty Three suspects are currently being prosecuted while 50 suspects in Police custody are under investigation and will be arraigned in court soon. “Investigation is being intensified to arrest other suspects still at large. The Police in the State in collaboration with other security and safety agencies will continue the confidence building patrols throughout the state and sustain the normalcy that have been restored. “The Inspector General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris, has directed Assistant Inspector General of Police, Zone 7 Headquarters to meet with all the  stakeholders in the State to give peace a chance and sustain the normalcy that have been restored”.   