The Sports Writers’ Association of Nigeria, Lagos Chapter on Thursday honoured the 1st Vice President, Nigeria Football Federation, Barrister Seyi Akinwunmi on his re-election to the Glass House. Speaking at the epoch making event held at the Lagos SWAN Secretariat, SWAN boss, Mr Debo Oshundun said the ceremony was aimed to honour and also to encourage Barrister Akinwunmi to sustain his efforts at changing the face of football in Nigeria. READ ALSO Bafana coach rates Eagles low His words: “Barrister is a man of many part. He is a lover of children and has done so much to help Nigerian kids to realize their dreams. Though, he has not looked in this regard but we thought it wise to honour one of own in order for him to do more. “Barrister has been a good ambassador of the state and it important to give honour to whom it is due. So, however on behalf of the most vibrant chapter of sport writing, the Lagos SWAN, we want appreciate you for all your good deeds for Nigerian football,” In his response, Akinwunmi thanked the Lagos SWAN executives led by Debo Oshundun and the entire members of the association for the honour, said aiding Nigerian children was not aimed at getting commendations but to give the kids a future. “I was really shocked when the Lagos SWAN chairman informed me about this award. At first, I never thought it was going to be this big until Oshundun told me yesterday (Wednesday) to invite some of my friends. “For me, this award is a reward for more work as there are still lots of kids out there waiting for someone to help them realize their dreams. And I want to admonish us here to also pick a child and groom them to glory,” Akinwunmi who doubles as the Chairman Lagos State Football Federation pleaded. The legal luminary wiped his face filled with tears of joy after a resounding applause followed his recitation read by frontline sports journalist, Pius Ayinor. Barrister Akinwunmi was presented with a plague and a giant photo frame. Some of the top dignitaries and senior colleagues that graced the ceremony include; the Executive Chairman, Lagos Sports Commission, Dr Kweku Randoh, President, AIPS Africa, Mr Mitchel Obi, former Queen of the track, Mary Onyali Omagbemi, former national SWAN secretary general, Mr Wale Alabi and his deputy, Wale Joseph, former Lagos SWAN chairman, Mr Fred Edoreh, board members of the Lagos State Football Association, the Managing Editor, Gongnews, Mr Olajide Fashikun and a host others.