Taking lemon with warm water first thing in the morning is one of the simplest and very effective remedies to get rid of tummy fat. Ifeoma Chukwuma Basically, fat tummy is caused by eating the wrong foods, heavy drinking, consuming too many calories and/or insufficient exercise. Also women gain a lot of weight with having children. Some of them never get to lose the fat, especially on the tummy area. And this makes them unhappy, probably because they may have lost that “ skimpy” look! A bulging tummy is not only an aesthetic issue. It is also about one’s health. You may have heard that excess abdominal fat increases your risk of a number of diseases, including type 2 diabetes, cancer, hypertension and heart condition. This could be due to the fact that when fat lies deep in the abdomen, surrounding organs and secreting toxic hormones, it contributes to the thickening of the walls of coronary blood vessels, which increases the chances of having a heart attack. The liver also suffers when you have too much tummy flab. It has to work that much harder to filter out toxic substances. Many studies have confirmed that fat deposits have direct associations with disease risk, thereby confirming the dangers of abdominal fat. So, let’s take a look at how you can shed the fat in your tummy area with very simple lifestyle changes and herbs: To achieve that flat tummy one so desires, this tops my list. And it is very simple when compared with other kinds of weight management programmes. Simply eat dinner as early as 6p.m. (latest by 7.30 p.m.) and not eat again until eight in the morning. By so doing, you’ll will be giving your gut at least 12 hours of rest. You will even surpass your target if you have the first meal of the day after 14 hours of not eating
or drinking. This single, simple change may be all you need to trigger a dramatic weight loss. A lot of people with perfect waistline swear by an early dinner-time. You too can drop all the weight with very little effort: no diet pills, fat burners, or shakes. However, as simple as it may sound, this nightly fasts may not be easy for those who believe it’s too painful to go to bed hungry! If you are among such people, you may take some fluids. And trust me, in a flash, your whole body will change. You’ll literally notice, from the first day when you look into the mirror, that your stomach is smarter! Then giving your “gut a rest” will easily become a part of you. And you will be amazed how many dress sizes you would effortlessly drop, within a short period. You too can boldly affirm – “the secret to a flat tummy is as simple as an early dinner-time!” It is noteworthy that apart from getting a smarter tummy, research on breast cancer survivors has found that breast cancer recurrences were less likely when women abstained from food for at least 13 hours at night. Research has also found that consuming one or two bottles of soda daily causes your waistline to increase at least five times faster than those who barely drink soda in the course of a week. It is believed that the high amount of sugar used in sodas trigger your craving for food, so you end up eating more than you should during mealtimes. If you have that serious craving for a satisfying drink, why not go for healthy smoothies, fresh fruit juices, or a glass of water with lemon zest and mint leaves? You’ll be doing your body and overall health some good. Be sure not to drink too much, especially those high in fructose. The key to unlocking the metabolic fire rests on eating healthy fats. One of the reasons some people find it difficult losing fat is because they avoid eating foods with any type of fat, but rather indulge in many sugar-laden foods. A diet that is rich in monounsaturated fats, including avocado pear, coconuts, nuts, seeds and olive oil, helps to melt that stubborn abdominal fat. Foods that contain these healthy fats work to send a signal to your brain that your stomach is full, ultimately resulting in eating less and feeling satisfied longer. Limit or eliminate all processed foods: These contain harmful toxins in the form of artificial flavors and colours, preservatives and a long list of other ingredients that can negatively affect your ability to lose body fat. Get a regular night’s sleep: it is equally important to give your self a good rest. Many studies have linked inadequate sleep with weight gain, which may include abdominal fat. Also… You can shape up and lose those unsightly bulges as fast as possible with the following herbs: Taking lemon with warm water first thing in the morning is one of the simplest and very effective remedies to get rid of tummy fat. All you need is a glass of warm water, a tbsp. of lemon and tsp. of honey, if desired. I was very glad to find that my favorite spice, keeps the stomach in top shape. It does all sorts and adds flavour to my oats, pap, vegetables, stews and porridges. You may simply infuse some coriander powder in freshly boiled water to help you shed extra kilos. The taste is super, so you may not need to add honey or lemon. Enjoy! This herb has a long-standing reputation for aiding weight loss and has gained popularity in many product formulations for obesity and weight loss supplements. It can be eaten raw in salads, steamed or sprinkled in foods. An infusion of chickweed will not only help break down fat, but will decrease appetite, curb cravings, make you urinate a lot (diuretic), and even assist digestion. If your belly fat is due to water retention, dandelion tea should be your new best friend (plus it tastes good too). Like chickweed, dandelion is also a natural diuretic. Not only will this herb increase your urine output, it will improve your liver function. To flush retained water and toxins out of your body, especially from the stomach (abdominal bloating), combine dandelion root with some fat-burning spices
– ginger, cinnamon, mint and rosemary. Bring those to a boil and then simmer for 30 minutes. Allow to cool, strain and take a small tumbler 2X daily. This wonderful herb targets tummy fat by boosting metabolic rate (helping you burn more calories). In addition, it makes you relax and reduce your stress level, which in return helps in weight reduction (some form of stress have been attributed to weight gain).