Laide Raheem, Abeokuta Elders and stakeholders of the Ogun West chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), in Ogun State, have accused Governor Ibikunle Amosun, of “using Yewa Awori person to perpetrate his third term agenda”. They also declared their rejection of the governor’s anointed governorship candidate, Abdul-Kabir Adekunle Akinlade and threw their weight behind Dapo Abiodun, as the gubernatorial candidate of the party. According to the Ogun West APC elders and stakeholders, no one could claim to be more of Ogun West than any of them, lamenting that their “dream” of having a processed, empowered and mentored Yewa Awori man as governor on the ticket of the party was “betrayed.” They made their position known in a 12 point communique, issued at the end of their meeting, held on Friday in Owode-Yewa, Ogun State. READ ALSO: Okorocha to Oshiomhole: Forward Nwosu’s name as APC candidate Reading the communique on behalf of the group, the immediate past chairman of Ogun State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), Mufutau Ajibola, said Akinlade was unilaterally selected by the governor as the consensus candidate, saying they have elected to align with and support the decision of the APC National Working Committee (NWC), which affirmed that Abiodun is the party’s candidate in the state. According to him, “our dream “Yewa Awori man for governor must be credible, ull of virtue and devoid of blemishes.” “He must be acceptable to the vast majority of other equally important stakeholders across the state and responsible to the citizenry and not to a selfish cabal under the leadership of tyrant, emperor and self acclaimed god of Ogun State.” Ajibola, therefore, called for an end to the “intimidation, threats and  harassment” of party members loyal to Abiodun, noting people should use decent approach to vent their dissatisfaction. He added that the Ogun West APC elders took exceptions to the recent uncomplimentary comments by Governor Amosun and Senator Iyabo Anisulowo against the persons of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Segun Osoba and APC national Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, warning that a repeat of such unguarded comments would be met with appropriate reactions. He, however, that said that the APC Ogun West elders are solidly behind the national body, advising it not to allow itself to be “distracted by sponsored gatherings and related empowerments in some areas.” Other Ogun West APC chieftains at the stakeholders meeting include three time member of the House of Representatives, Biodun Akinlade, Tunji Akinosi, former Commissioner for Forestry, Ayo Olubori, among others. 