Tony Osauzo, Benin In apparent reaction to the post-primary elections crises plaguing the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), and in a show of support for the party leadership, the Akoko-Edo chapter of the party, on Thursday, at a mass rally, in Igarra, Edo State, passed a vote of confidence on the national chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, and the member representing the constituency in the federal House of Representatives, Hon. Peter Akpatason. During the rally, the streets of Igarra, headquarters of the local government and the party Secretariat, were in celebration and ecstasy, as party faithful came out in large numbers from the 10 wards to declare their unalloyed support and solidarity for Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, Hon. Peter Akpatason and Hon. Dele Oloruntoba. In his comment, Chief Adebudo, one of the party members, described Akoko-Edo and Oshiomhole as Siamese twins, which no individual or group can separate for whatsoever reason or ambition. Another member of the party, Mr. Folly Akerejola, the immediate past chairman of the local government council, described Oshiomhole and Akpatason as ‘men of impeccable character’ who have track records of integrity and hard work. READ ALSO: Re-elect me in 2019, Dino Melaye appeals to Kogi electorate According to him, “Oshiomhole and Akpatason have proven themselves worthy sons of Edo land and Nigeria as a whole. “Oshiomhole is an epitome of leadership and  development who has made Edo people proud. “Comrade Akpatason on the other hand has developed Akoko-Edo Federal constituency beyond our expectation. “That’s why we want him to continue to represent us as a ranked and high performing legislator”, he said. Also speaking, another leader of the party in the area, Barr. Sunday Mayaki, dismissed the speculation of some party members that some wards were planning ethnic agenda, stressing that Akpatason is a son of the entire  Akoko-Edo. He assured that the people of the area would support him (Akpatason) to continue his good works for the people of the constituency. “No Igara agenda, we are going to return Akpatason and Dele Olorutoba come 2019. Everybody in Akoko-Edo should come out enmasse and exercise their franchise wisely for continuity”, he stressed. A woman leader of the party, Comrade Funmi Oseh, described Oshiomhole and Akpatason as God-sent who have showed to the people that there are still some decent politicians who care about the people. “They have taken empowering of women as a priority. When Oshiomhole was the governor of Edo State, he built schools, hospitals, and gave our children work. God go bless Oshiomhole. Akpatason gave the women grinding machines, hair dryers, and some funds to do business”, she said. An elder statesman in the constituency, Mr. Ifelaye Belogun, advised the people of Akoko-Edo to remain resolute in trusting and believing on the leadership of Adams Oshiomhole and Akpatason, stressing that both would bring more fortunes to the state and Nigeria in general. READ ALSO: JUST IN: Army recovers body of missing Gen. Idris Alkali “Akoko-Edo people should go out and vote wisely to continue development because he has been tested and trusted so he should remain our representative”, he solicited. They noted that Oshiomhole had been able to bring discipline and sanity to the party unlike the past when indiscipline and cutting of corners were the orders of the day. 