Moshood Adebayo Amid fears of abandonment of ongoing projects by the Governor Akinwunmi Ambode-led administration after May 29, 2019, the governor has assured his successor will continue with his programmes. Ambode gave the assurance during the Ninth Tradesmen And Artisanship Week and Graduation Ceremony for Re-Trained Artisans in Ikeja, yesterday. He said the programme has been embedded in the All Progressives Congress (APC) manifesto, which he described as a great party. “You can be rest assured of the continued sustenance of this programme by APC-controlled administartion in Lagos State. We thank all organisations and individuals from the organised private sector who have joined hands with us in our determination to improve the competence and socio-economic condition of our artisans. The governor urged the over 1,500 graduands to take advantage of the opportunities provided to be financially independent, become employers of labour and contribute their quota to the growth and development of the state. READ ALSO: 2019 elections: APC’ll form people-oriented govt. in Abia – state chair Meanwhile, the government has assured commuters on the Lagos-Badagry Road that efforts to rehabilitate the bad portions of the road had resumed. Although, the Federal Government manages the inter-national route, the government promised to keep its maintenance workers and equipment on the road until commuters and other users are relieved of the stress caused by the bad portions. Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Ade Akinsanya said the government has maintained the road regularly in the last three and a half years through rehabilitation, explaining that discussions with investors willing to upgrade the road under the Private-Public Partnership is going on at both the state and federal levels. “So far, the Public Works Corporation has carried out palliative works at Iyana Era, Ijanikin, Oko-afo, Magbon, Ibereko, Araromi, Iyana Isashi and Agbara,” Akinsanya said. He said other contractors has been mobilised to ensure full coverage of the assignment. 