Geoffrey Anyanwu, Awka The leadership of  the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), on Thursday, got a rude shock  when aggrieved aspirants in the primaries of the party shunned a reconciliation meeting it convened at the  Anambra State Secretariat of the party, in Awka. The aspirants instead insisted on the refund of the money the expended for nomination and expression of interests forms before any consideration could be given to any reconciliation move. The National Reconciliation Committee of the party, led by the vice presidential candidate  of the party in the 2019 general elections, Chief Jerry Chukwueke, had scheduled the meeting which was convened to them by the state chairman of the party, Chief Norbert Obi. The invitation to the aspirants read in part, “All APGA aspirants in the recently concluded primaries, party wards and local government executives are invited to meet with the committee as part of the party’s reconciliation efforts.” The bad blood generated by the party’s primaries which were generally characterised by rancour, ranging from accusations of  extortion, disqualification and outright issuance of the party tickets to favoured persons, forced the party to set up a reconciliation committee. But the meeting scheduled for 3:00pm was shunned by the aggrieved aspirants, and the reconciliation committee. READ ALSO: FAAC: FG, Sates, LGAs share N648.7bn in Sept. When contacted, one of the aggrieved aspirants, who pleaded anonymity said, “What reconciliation are they doing? Which reconciliation are you talking about? After extorting monies from us, they now say they want to reconciliation; how possible is that? “We’ve decided that if they are serious about any reconciliation, let them start by refunding us our monies; then we will know they are serious. “Governor Willie Obiano has killed APGA. We will demonstrate our anger against them in next year’s election. Just watch and see what will happen, this is the beginning of the end of APGA.” The state’s chairman of the party, Obi, who refused to speak on the matter, simply said, “There is nothing to say. We didn’t see anybody  here for the reconciliation. I’m going to my house.”