Joe Effiong, Uyo The All Progressive Congress (APC) governorship candidate for Akwa Ibom State, Mr. Nsima Ekere, has appealed to churches to advise politicians to justify their reasons for seeking political office so that such opportunity would not be wasted. Ekere said while consulting the Akwa Ibom state leadership of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) at Qua Iboe Church, Itam, along Calabar Road, on Sunday that some people are only interested in geeting power even when they do not know what to do with it. “Some say people just because the other person did eight years, therefore they must also do eight years irrespective of how woeful they have performed in their first term. That is wrong. The constitution that we  have says that one should be elected for a term of four years. “You should only come back to seek for another term of four years if you had delivered creditably on the first four years that you had. And when you come, what you should use to campaign is; this first four years that you gave me , I did A; I did B; I did C; I did D; I did this and I did that. That’s the basis for campaign when you are going for second term; and not sentiments. “And then for me who is challenging the incumbent, I’m going to be asking him; ‘When we gave you the opportunity, how did you use it? What were you able to do for the people of Akwa Ibom State? How were you able to affect the lives of an ordinary person of Akwa Ibom State? What infrastructure have you built in the three and half years now? “Those are the questions and that is what this election is all about. This election is about how the PDP administration used the last three and half years and the resources accruing to this state to work for you and me,” Ekere said. He challenged the leadership of CAN in the state to assess the performance of the current administration in the state and see whether it has added any value to their lives, and if their answer was in the negative, they should then support the APC to bring the needed change to the state. “I had the privilege in 2011 to be running as deputy governor on the ticket with Godswill Akpabio; and I remember as we went round this state campaigning, we said that the flyover at Itam Junction had been constructed; Ekim Itam to Ekom Iman road had been constructed; the  international airport in Uyo had been completed and put to use; I was chairman of Ibom Power Plant in the first term of Godswill Akpabio and what Godswill was using in his re-election campaign in 2011 was that ‘Nsima had completed the Ibom power plant’  within the two years of his administration. “Today, I challenge you and I challenge this government to show Akwa Ibom people what they have done; what they have been able to achieve in three and half years. I want them to tell us what would justify me not to run and it will be justified to tell the APC, let us wait let PDP continue. But unfortunately, they have nothing to show to Akwa Ibom people,” he said In his response he state chairman of CAN said it was the leasure of CAN in the state to receive Ekere on his consultation campaign since the church has a role to play in the affairs f the state and the country. “Let me use this opportunity to advise you the APC governorship candidate and all political office seekers in all the political parties in the is state and the country as you go into this exercise, you must play according to the rule. “As a candidate, you are a member of the church just as others. As CAN, all I can say to you and all l politicians is in everything, honour God, praise, trust God, reverence God and listen to God. If he speaks to you, learn to listen to him twice. In this an every other matter, our prayer is let the will of God be done,” Ekwere said. He advised against the shedding of blood because of election stressing that God would require such of such person.