Ben Dunno, Warri A group, the Warri Urban Security Network (WUSN), has described the attack on the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) ‘C’ Division, Asaba, CSP Anietie Eyoh, in his office, as an ‘affront to constituted authority’, insisting that the perpetrator of the dastardly act be made to face justice to serve as deterrent. Condemning the act in a statement issued, in Warri, on Monday, the body warned that any attempt to sweep the incident under the carpet and allow the culprit go unpunished would be counter productive to the police force as any hoodlum can just walk into any police station and beat up senior officers who declined to release suspects to him. READ ALSO: 2019: I’ll ensure no jobless youth in Ogun within 100 days if… – ANRP gov’ship candidate Recalling the incident at ‘C’ Division police station, Cable Points, Asaba, on Saturday, when a self-imposed rights activist, one Prince Harrison Gwamnishu, walked into the office of the DPO and went violent after his request for the release of a self-confessed cultist that was being detained was refused by the police authority. The statement, signed by Chief Alfred Akabueze and Mr. Harrison Odjegba, the Chairman and Secretary, respectively, described the act as barbaric, cruel and ridicule of a highly placed officer and constituted authority, the body requested that the matter be charged to court as soon as possible in order to allow for justice to carried out. According to the group, “It is still beyond our comprehension to fathom the rationale behind the action of an individual who claimed to be a right activist to walk into a police station and descended on the DPO, beating and tearing his dress for refusing to release to him a cultist who had admitted his crime and waiting to be charge to court. “Besides, since this incident came to our notice, we have taking pains to carryout our independent research on the attacker, Prince Harrison Gwamnishu and discovered that his human rights group, “Behind Bar Initiatives” (BBI)  was not a registered body, as it was formed by him to witch hunt the police force while serving a 4-year jail term for stealing. “It was hinged on this discovery that we demand answers to the following questions; what is moral justification for such an action? READ ALSO: Maritime crimes threaten economy, security “Who are the powerful and influential forces behind this impostor that gave me him the courage to attack a police officer? And why is the person of CSP Anietie Eyoh, a distinguished officer of the law, the target? “We called on the Delta state Police Commissioner, CP Muhammad Mustafa, to ensure that this matter was not covered up by external influence, as we will be following up on the case to its logical conclusion by attending all the court proceedings till judgment is delivered and enforced”, the group assured. The body also went further to plead with the Delta state Command to use this incident to reconsider its decision and return CSP Anietie Eyoh, back to Warri where the safety of his life is more guarantied, as it’s now very obvious that some forces are after his life in the area he is presently being deployed to serve.  