Paul Pogba and Anthony Martial scored the goals as Manchester United recorded a 2-1 win over Everton in the Premier League on Sunday. The result has seen the 20-time English champions move above Everton into eighth position in the Premier League table ahead of their trip to in-form Bournemouth next weekend. Everton’s first chance of the match arrived in the 14th minute when on-loan Barcelona midfielder Andre Gomes found all sorts of space inside the United box, but his header was straight into the arms of David de Gea. Martial tested Jordan Pickford with a powerful effort in the 23rd minute as opportunities continued to arrive. READ ALSO CAMAC wins Total National Division 2 League Martial was United’s most dangerous attacker, and the Frenchman won his team a penalty in the 26th minute when he went down under a challenge from Idrissa Gueye. Pogba took an age in his run-up, which brought boos from the crowd, before seeing his penalty saved by Pickford, but the rebound fell kindly for the Frenchman, who stroked the ball into the opposite corner to send United ahead in the 27th minute. Marcus Rashford looked to have doubled United’s lead three minutes later when he tapped home at the far post, but the England international was rightly flagged offside. The Red Devils were having all of the ball as the first period approached its latter stages, and Fred saw a long-range strike just miss the post as Everton continued to come under fire. Martial had terrorised the away side in the first period, and it was the excellent Frenchman that doubled United’s lead when he curled a sensational effort into the bottom corner following more good work from Pogba. Lukaku came off the United bench in the 65th minute as a replacement for Rashford during a period where Everton were threatening, and De Gea had to keep out a header from Gomes in the 66th minute. Everton were back in the match in the 77th minute, however, when Sigurdsson fired a penalty past De Gea after Chris Smalling had brought Richarlison to the deck with a late challenge. Cenk Tosun and Dominic Calvert-Lewin were both thrown on as Everton looked for a second, and the latter headed a late chance wide of the post. There were six minutes of additional time at Old Trafford, and United should have scored a third in the fourth of those when Martial broke into the Everton box, but Pickford made a smart save as it finished 2-1 at Old Trafford.