Nnamani told newsmen that the former BoT chairman was called ‘Mr Fix It’ because of respect for his strength of strategy, planning, effectiveness in national politics Ndubuisi Orji, Abuja Former Senate President, Ken Nnamani, has opened up on why former Board of Trustees chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), late Chief Tony Anenih, was fondly called ‘Mr Fix It’ by his admirers and supporters. Anenih, a former minister of Works, during former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s first term died in Abuja, on Sunday, at 85. Nnamani told newsmen in Abuja, yesterday, after condoling with Anenih’s family, over his demise, that the former BoT chairman was called ‘Mr Fix It’ because of respect for his strength of strategy, planning, effectiveness in national politics. The former senate president explained that the late elder statesman had a knack for simplifying complex political issues, starting from his emergence as the National chairman of the Social Democratic Party (SDP). Nnamani, who is now a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), added that the PDP made giant strides under the former minister, as chairman of its BoT. “Our party constitution, both APC, PDP, none defines the position of a leader. It is not in any of the constitutions. You can not go to any section and see the role of a party leader; it doesn’t exist, but, every person recognised him as a leader, the chairman recognised him as a leader. “He brought the BoT of the PDP to a higher level. It got to a point when he was no more the leader of the PDP alone. He was the leader of the country, politically speaking. There is no politician in Nigeria, whether you like him or you hate him, who will not respect his strength of strategy, planning, effectiveness and that earned him that name ‘Mr. Fix It.’ He was not a desperate politician. He was an organiser, a strategist. That was why we called him ‘Mr. Fix It’. At Anenih’s residence, at the Sunrise Hill Estate in Asokoro District, Abuja, yesterday, to condole with his family were former PDP presidential aspirant, Taminu Turaki , former minister of Finance, Senator Esther Nenadi Usman; among others. Also, Bayelsa State Governor, Henry Seriake Dickson, said Nigeria lost a political colossus in Anenih.
Dickson, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Public Affairs, Mr. Daniel Alabrah, said he received the news of Chief Anenih’s death with shock. “Chief Anenih was a political icon, a nationalist and a great leader of men. He was a political colossus. His passing has created a huge vacuum in our political landscape that will be difficult to fill,” said Dickson.