Juliana Taiwo-Obalonye, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has declared that the Federal Government is ready to contend with anyone who is against the peace and unity of Nigeria. The president made the declaration when he had audience with Eze Abdulfatah Emetumah III, the Offor of Umuofor Kingdom, Oguta Local Government Area of Imo State and his delegation at the Presidential Villa. ”Anybody that tries to joke with the unity of this country has a problem as long as we are alive,” President Buhari declared. President Buhari told the monarch, who is also the Chief Imam of Oguta, that his main objective of serving as an elected public office holder is to make the country better. READ ALSO: 2019: Okurounmu cautions INEC, security agencies against ‘needless partisanship’ ”Our single objective is how to make Nigeria better and we will never get tired,” he said. In a statement by the Special Adviser to the President Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina said, President Buhari, who thanked the delegation for identifying with the progress made so far by this administration in moving the nation forward, assured them that their well thought out recommendations on engendering unity in the country would be considered. In his remarks, Eze Emetumah commended the President for demonstrating his love for Nigerians and Nigeria through purposeful leadership in the last three years. ”Your Excellency, from birth you have a mission for Nigeria and you have demonstrated this in your career as a soldier, Minister, Head of State, in PTF and now President. “You have fought for the unity of this nation and its enemies, we know very well that you won’t tolerate anything that would affect its unity and our collective existence,” he said. According to the royal father and cleric, it is noteworthy that under the present administration, ‘‘dissemblers like Boko Haram and other anarchists have tasted the bitter pills.” ”In agriculture, today locally produced rice has outnumbered the imported, while critical infrastructure especially Federal roads across the nation have improved and are still improving.”