Laide Raheem,  Abeokuta Some members of the Ogun State chapter of Labour Party (LP), on Monday, stormed the Federal High Court premises, at Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, to protest alleged plans by a former governor of Ogun State,  Gbenga Daniel, and the senator representing Ogun East senatorial district,  Buruji Kashamu, to hijack the party structure in the state. The protesters, who besieged the entrance of the court with placards, with various inscriptions, claimed that the two chieftains of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, were conniving with some LP members to usurp the leadership position of the party. The court had, in the suit number: FHC/AB/CS/123/18 been scheduled to commence hearing on a matter brought before it by the trio of Biodun Owolabi,  Oginni Olaposi Sunday and Segun Oluyede, against the Ogun LP and six other defendants which included the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). In the suit, Owolabi, Oginni and Oluyede were challenging the authenticity of the Abayomi Arabambi led state executive of the party. Speaking with newsmen at the FHC premises, Arabambi explaines the protest was just to set the record straight. READ ALSO: One dead, 2 injured as vehicle falls into ditch in Abuja According to him, the duo of Kashamu and Daniel had attempted to hijack the structure of the LP Ogun when they are still members of PDP. “We actually came for a matter here today but we are surprised to find that Segun Seriki, a PDP chieftain had been deposed to as the State Chairman of Labour Party, even when there is a court matter between  Segun Seriki, Uche Secondus and Elder Yemi Akinwonmi over the slot of the Deputy National Chairman of PDP, South in a Federal High Court in Lagos”. “We were shocked when we were served Court summon, they even came to court expecting to collect an injunction against some of our members, claiming that they were in office since January and that I used some political brigandage to unseat them,” Arambabi stated. He declared that LP will contest for all elective positions in the forthcoming elections, noting he remained the authentic chairman of the party in Ogun. Arabambi, therefore, threatened that Labour party may pull out of the CUPP, if there is an attempt by the PDP to castrate Labour Party in the state. READ ALSO: Stakeholders brainstorm on provision of water, sanitation, hygiene in Benue “We don’t have any business to do with them; I will be going to Abuja to inform the leadership of LP about happenings in the state. I want to appeal to the National Chairman of the PDP, Uche Secondus to call his members to order,” he added. Segun Seriki, while speaking with our correspondent on phone yesterday, denied having anything to do with the labour party in the state. According to him, the sworn affidavit, neither had his signature nor his name, insisting “I have nothing to do with the court matter and the Labour Party”. 