NLC President Ayuba Wabba said that labour got a firm commitment from the Federal Government to reopen negotiations on the minimum wage. Bimbola Oyesola and James Ojo, Abuja Following the Federal Government’s readiness to reopen negotiations on the new national minimum wage by the tripartite committee, labour organisations yesterday suspended the nationwide warning strike. The strike, which commenced in the early hours of last Thursday was called at the expiration of a 14-day ultimatum to reconvene the tripartite negotiation meeting, which was abruptly suspended by the Federal Government team led by the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige. It was few hours to the commencement of the strike that labour was invited for a meeting where the minister revealed that the tripartite meeting will be reconvened on Thursday this week, but labour insisted on going ahead with the strike. However, the strike was mostly felt in most government offices as schools, and other sectors of the economy like the banking, transportation, trade and commerce were running without hitches. But health workers in government hospitals decided to join the strike after it entered the second day to make it more effective. Announcing the suspension of the strike yesterday, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) President, Ayuba Wabba, at about 2 p.m., said that labour got a firm commitment from the Federal Government to reopen negotiations on the minimum wage. He added that the strike was being called off to enable a conducive environment for the committee to reconvene and conclude its work. “Four days ago, we informed you that organised labour was embarking on a warning strike as from Thursday, September 26, 2018, after our 14-day ultimatum to government to reconvene the meeting and conclude the work of the Tripartite National Minimum Wage Committee elapsed. “On Thursday morning, the strike commenced and was observed across the country. We wish to appreciate our workers and affiliate unions for their commitment and determination. We thank all Nigerians for their support. “We have received a firm and formal invitation to a reconvened meeting of the tripartite committee scheduled for October 4-5, 2018. We demand that this shall be the final session of the committee and that a final report will be submitted to Mr. President immediately. “In order to avail the committee the necessary conducive environment to hold this crucial meeting and conclude its work, organised labour has, after obtaining the mandate of their necessary organs, decided to suspend the strike action with effect from today, Sunday, September 30, 2018. 