Desmond Mgboh, Kano The Kano State Government has reversed its decision to employ the multi-billion Naira diagnostic center constructed by Pfizer as a teaching hospital for the Yusuf Maitama Sule University (YMU). The diagnostic center, which was constructed as part of out-of-court settlement between the government and Pfizer, has not been put to use ever since it was inaugurated years ago. Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, while receiving  members of the Yusuf Maitama University Governing Council in his office, lamented that “the Kwanar Dawaki Diagnostic Center, initially designated as Teaching Hospital for the university could not be put to use because of some contentions with certain stakeholders”. He said that his administration has concluded plans to rather convert one of the public hospitals in the state for same purpose. READ ALSO: Gov. Okowa, Turaki storm Bayelsa for Safe Motherhood official launch “We will support the university to realise its medical college which will eventually become the flagship of the university because of its importance”, the governor maintained. Governor Ganduje also promised that his administration would complete the construction of two faculty buildings in the university to enable it admit more students as approved by the National Universities Commission. He said the state government decided to limit the number of lecturers sponsored aboard for training to only those going for specialised courses so as to save funds that would be used to develop public tertiary institutions. The governor praised the management of the university for its commitment to the overall development of the university while applauding their efforts towards the accreditation of several courses offered by the institution. He urged them to maintain the trend. Earlier on, Chairman of the Council, Alhaji Sule Yahaya Hamma, explained that the visit was to brief the governor on the progress of the institution, including its preparation to open a medical school, among others.