Soon after entering the courtroom, Fayose was called into the dock, where he took his plea on the 11 counts filed against him and his company, Spotless Ltd. Romanus Okoye The immediate past governor of Ekiti State, Mr. Ayodele Fayose, was yesterday arraigned before a Lagos Division of the Federal High Court on an 11-count charge bordering on conspiracy and money laundering. According to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Fayose received funds for his 2014 governorship campaign in Ekiti State, a sum it said he ought to have known formed part of the proceeds of an unlawful act. Fayose’s arraignment is coming six days after he bowed out of office as governor. He was taken to court directly from the custody of the EFCC, where he had been detained for questioning after he submitted himself on Tuesday, October 16, upon the expiration of his immunity from prosecution. Fayose arrived the court premises conveyed by a white EFCC bus accompanied by security operatives. Soon after entering the courtroom, Fayose was called into the dock, where he took his plea on the 11 counts filed against him and his company, Spotless Limited. He pleaded not guilty on behalf of himself and Spotless Limited to the 11 charges of criminal breach of trust, theft and money laundering. In the charges, the EFCC alleged that, on June 17, 2014, Fayose “took possession of the sum of N1,219,000,000 to fund your 2014 gubernatorial campaign in Ekiti State, which you reasonably ought to have known formed part of the proceeds of an unlawful act, to wit: criminal breach of trust/stealing.” He was also alleged to have on the same day “received a cash payment of $5,000,000 from Senator Musiliu Obanikoro, the then Minister of State for Defence, which sum exceeded the amount authorised by law and you thereby committed an offence contrary to sections 1 and 16(d) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011 (as amended) and punishable under Section 16 (2)(b) of the same Act.” On another count, Fayose was accused of “taking control of an aggregate sum of N317,000,000,” which he allegedly deposited into the bank account of Spotless Limited, “a company controlled by you and your family.” He was also accused of “using an aggregate sum of N1,151,711,573 to acquire chalets 3 and 4; and 5 and 9 of the property situate at Plot 100, Tiamiyu Savage Street, Victoria Island, Lagos, in the name of JJ Technical Service.” Among other allegations, the EFCC further accused Fayose of receiving gratification from Samchase Nigeria Limited. After pleading not guilty to the charges, the prosecuting counsel for the EFCC, Rotimi Oyedepo, prayed for a trial date and an order remanding Fayose in prison.