“[We] make bold to stage this protest against the determined mission of the Governor of Ogun State to drag the hard earned integrity of Ogun State into mud” Laide Raheem,  Abeokuta Groups, including Ogun Progressive Students, Ogun Youth Assembly and Coalition of Ogun Traders, on Monday, urged Ogun State governor Senator Ibikunle to abide by the decision of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and support Dapo Abiodun as the party’s governorship candidate in the southwestern state. The groups, who staged a protest against what they termed the “determined mission of Amosun to drag the hard earned integrity of Ogun State into mud,” also passed vote of confidence on the National Chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomole. Briefing journalists on behalf of the protesting groups after their protest in Abeokuta, Abdul Kabiru Ayoola, Convener, Movement for Secured Nigeria, vowed that the groups would stand against any attempt to nullify the candidacy of Abiodun and him replace with the governor’s “anointed candidate”. Ayoola said Abiodun should be accepted as the democratic decision of the members of the APC in Ogun State who, according to him, had made a legitimate choice. “If at this point in time we fail to speak, history will never forgive us, neither will posterity judge us well. The above bodies make bold to stage this protest against the determined mission of the Governor of Ogun State to drag the hard earned integrity of Ogun State into mud,” he to media. “As a matter of reference, Governor Amosun clinched the ticket without any primaries in 2011. In 2018, it was a keenly contested primaries for the party governorship ticket, conducted by the NWC of the party and Dapo Abiodun was declared winner. We are only appealing to Amosun to accept and support  Abiodun as the Ogun APC governorship candidate,” Ayoola stated. While commending APC National Chairman Oshiomhole for restoring decency, dignity and decorum to the party, Ayoola urged him not to get discouraged by the antics of some members. He implored members of the party’s NWC to resist pressure or calls for the withdrawal of Abiodun as the duly elected governorship candidate in Ogun State. 