Jeff Amechi Agbodo, Onitsha The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Anambra State House of Assembly primary election for Onitsha North 2 constituency has been won by Mr. Patrick Okafor. Okafor defeated Mrs. Chinyere Dim with 63 votes against 1 vote scored by Mrs. Dim in the primary election conducted at Onitsha Sports club. The Returning Officer, Mr. Olisa Mmaduka who announced the result of the election after the delegates’ votes declared Okafor the winner after scoring the highest vote cast as required by the constitution of the party and electoral act. READ ALSO: Atiku is next Nigeria’s President, says Niger PDP The election was monitored by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security agents under the open secret ballot system in a serene atmosphere as the Mrs. Dim refused to show up at the venue of the election maybe suspecting that she would lose and decided to stay away to avoid open embarrassment. Speaking after the election, Mr. Okafor led the delegates for their votes, promising that he will not disappoint them if elected at the general elections and called on them to come en mass to vote for him to emerge the winner at the genealogy election slated for next year. “There is no Victor no vanquish, the mist important is that we are going into the election with team spirit to provide the people with proper representation. “My opponents promised that she will support whoever emerges in the primary election. PDP is one now we are not factionalized again. “Today’s victory is just the first step towards the main election. We are not celebrating yet until we get to our destination. I call on my supporters to main steadfast until the general election,” Okafor stated. In related development, Mr. Chris Arinze emerged unopposed in Accord Party primary election for Onitsha South 1 State Assembly while Akachukwu Agwuna also emerged unopposed for Onitsha South2 state constituency. READ ALSO: Oyo health ministry to deworm children in 13 LGs While declaring the duo winners of the election, the Returning Officer Dr. Chibuogwu Nwambu, said that 50 delegates affirmed the candidature of Arinze for Onitsha South 1 while 35 delegates affirmed the result of Agwuna for Onitsha South 2 which was conducted in an open ballot system. Arinze said that he would win other major political parties in the general election because according to him power belongs to God, promising all inclusive legislative representation in the state. Agwuna said, “I have four pillars of government namely, Education, infrastructure, youth employment and women empowerment. “Politics is all about interest and that is why Oduakpa people endorsed me to go and represent in the House. I have given about 15 people scholarship, lifting the widows and less privileged among other things”.