Nkechi Chima, Abuja Civil Societies Organisations and some notable individuals in Nigeria and diaspora yesterday in Abuja protested against the death of Ochanya Ogbanje who was recently raped and sodomized by her aunt’s husband Andrew Ogbuja and son Victor Ogbuja. The protesters drew from women organisations such as National Council for Women Societies (NCWS), International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA), Old Girl’s Federal Government College, Gboko; Idoma Youth Movement, some Nigerians residing abroad match from Unity Fountain to Federal Ministry of Justice chanting ‘We want justice for the girl child, hang the rapists”. Miss Ochanya was raped and sodomized from age 8 till 13, when she died of complications of the dreaded Vesico Vagina Fistula (VVF)”. Speaking on the death of Ochanya, Shoda said: “It is barbaric for a man and his son to indulge on ruining the destiny of a little girl. As a mother, my heart is broken and I think they should be jailed for life. READ ALSO AU seeks Nigeria’s support for single air transport project “It’s only insane and demonic men that rapes minors and girls for their evil missions Mrs. Shoda further stressed that “We are calling on relevant security agencies to help us fight for justice, that man and his son must go to jail for killing an innocent girl,” she added. FIDA, President Mrs. Ngozi Ikenga said “Girl-Child must be protested in our society and government has to protect the right of the girl child. “Law Enforcement Agencies should never be bias on cases of sexual abuse, because nemesis will definitely come upon them. “We are asking for justice and total elimination of this evil act from our society” she lamented. Director, Women and Children & Vulnerable Groups, Human Rights Commission commended NCWS, FIDA Benue state chapters on their efforts to provide justice for girl. Her words: “We have taken actions on the case from our office in Benue State. We await legal advice from the office of DPP, Ministry of Justice, Makurdi. So, that prosecution will commence at the high court. She further urged Nigerians and victims of sexual violence to speak out to stop the trend  and save the lives of victims. “The commission urges everyone to avoid self and family stigmatization and speak out to save the destinies of these children and eradicate this menace,” she concluded.